Miranda McClellan ’18, MEng ’19 awarded 2025 Schwarzman Scholarship 
 MIT alumna Miranda McClellan ’18, MEng ’19 has been named a 2025 Schwarzman Scholar. In August 2024, she will join the program’s 150 scholars arriving from 43 countries and 114 universities from around the world. The Class of 2025 Scholars were selected from a pool of over 4,000 applicants. They will attend a one-year fully funded master’s degree program in global affairs at Schwarzman College, Tsinghua University in Beijing, China. McClellan and her fellow Schwarzman Scholars will engage in a graduate curriculum focused on the pillars of leadership, global affairs, and China with additional opportunities for cultural immersion, experiential learning, and professional development. The fellowship program aspires to create a global network of leaders equipped with a well-rounded understanding of China’s changing role in the world. Hailing from Texas, McClellan earned a BS in computer science and a minor in African Studies from MIT in June 2018 and received an MEng in computer science in June 2019. While at MIT, she served on the board for the Black Students’ Union and presented recommendations for making the campus more inclusive. After graduating MIT, McClellan won a Fulbright grant to conduct research in Spain, where she studied applying machine learning to 5G networks. McClellan was a fellow at the Internet Society, Center for AI & Data Policy, and the National Science Policy Network. Since 2020, she has been working as a data scientist at Microsoft, building machine learning models to detect malware. In 2022, she co-founded Black Arts DFW to promote equitable access to fine arts for Black patrons in the Dallas area. She also serves as a cybersecurity curriculum developer and mentor to improve representation of minority women in tech roles. As a Schwarzman Scholar, McClellan hopes to compare the impact of Chinese and U.S. policies on issues of cybersecurity, privacy, and AI fairness. MIT’s Schwarzman Scholar applicants receive guidance and mentorship from the distinguished fellowships team in Career Advising and Professional Development and the Presidential Committee on Distinguished Fellowships. Students and alumni interested in learning more should contact Kimberly Benard, associate dean and director of distinguished fellowships and academic excellence. 