MIT named No. 2 university by U.S. News for 2023-24 
 MIT has placed second in U.S. News and World Report’s annual rankings of the nation’s best colleges and universities, announced today.  As in past years, MIT’s engineering program continues to lead the list of undergraduate engineering programs at a doctoral institution. The Institute also placed first in five out of 10 engineering disciplines.  U.S. News also placed MIT first in its evaluation of undergraduate computer science programs. The Institute placed first in four out of 10 computer science disciplines.  MIT remains the No. 2 undergraduate business program, a ranking it shares this year with the University of California at Berkeley. Among business subfields, MIT is ranked first in three out of nine specialties.  Within the magazine’s rankings of “academic programs to look for,” MIT topped the list in the category of undergraduate research and creative projects. The Institute also ranks as the third most innovative national university, according to the U.S. News peer assessment survey of top academics.  MIT placed first in five engineering specialties: aerospace/aeronautical/astronautical engineering; chemical engineering; electrical/electronic/communication engineering; materials engineering; and mechanical engineering. It placed within the top five in four other engineering areas: bioengineering/biomedical engineering, computer engineering; civil engineering, and environmental/environmental health engineering.  Other schools in the top five overall for undergraduate engineering programs are Stanford University, Georgia Tech, UC Berkeley, and Caltech.  In computer science, MIT placed first in four specialties: biocomputing/bioinformatics/biotechnology; computer systems; programming languages; and theory. It placed in the top five of five disciplines: artificial intelligence; cybersecurity (shared with Carnegie Mellon University); data analytics/science; mobile/web applications; and software engineering (shared with Stanford and UC Berkeley).  Other schools in the top five overall for undergraduate computer science programs are Carnegie Mellon, Stanford, UC Berkeley, and the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.  Among undergraduate business specialties, the MIT Sloan School of Management leads in analytics; production/operations management; and quantitative analysis/methods. It also placed within the top five in three other categories: entrepreneurship; finance; and supply chain management.  The No. 1-ranked undergraduate business program overall is at the University of Pennsylvania; other schools ranking in the top five include UC Berkeley, the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor, New York University, and the University of Texas at Austin. 