School of Engineering awards for 2023 
 Each year, the MIT School of Engineering honors outstanding faculty, students, and staff across its departments, labs, centers, and institutes with a number of awards. Recently, the school announced the following members of the engineering community at MIT as winners of its 2023 awards. Faculty and teaching awards William Tisdale, professor of chemical engineering, received the 2023 Bose Award for Excellence in Teaching, given to a faculty member whose contributions have been characterized by dedication, care, and creativity. Jacob Andreas, the X-Window Consortium Professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science (EECS), and Mingda Li, the Class of 1947 Career Development Professor in the Department of Nuclear Science and Engineering, received the Junior Bose Award, given to a junior faculty member who has made outstanding contributions as an educator. Elsa Olivetti, Jerry McAfee (1940) Professor in Engineering in Department of Materials Science and Engineering, received the Capers (1976) and Marion McDonald Award for Excellence in Mentoring and Advising, presented to a faculty member in the School of Engineering who — through tireless efforts to engage minds, elevate spirits, and stimulate high-quality work — has advanced the professional and personal development of students and colleagues. Jayant Sabnis, senior lecturer in aeronautics and astronautics, received the School of Engineering Distinguished Educator Award, presented to a faculty or teaching staff member whose teaching contributions are of significant impact and are consistently characterized by dedication, care, creativity, and inspiration to students and colleagues. The Ruth and Joel Spira Awards for Excellence in Teaching are awarded annually to four faculty members in the areas of electrical engineering, computer science, mechanical engineering, and nuclear science and engineering to acknowledge “the tradition of high-quality engineering education at MIT.” This year’s recipients include: Student awards Toluwalase Asade ’23, who graduated with a degree in mechanical engineering earlier this year, received the Henry Ford II Award, presented to a senior engineering student who has maintained a cumulative average of 5.0 at the end of their seventh term and who has exceptional potential for leadership in the profession of engineering and in society. Audrey Xie, a rising senior majoring in mathematics and computer science, and Rupert Li, a rising senior majoring in mathematical sciences, received Barry Goldwater Scholarships, given to students who exhibit an outstanding potential and intend to pursue careers in mathematics, the natural sciences, or engineering disciplines that contribute significantly to technological advances in the United States. Grace Quaratiello ’21, MEng ’23, who earned both her undergraduate and graduate degrees in the Department of EECS, received the Graduate Student Extraordinary Teaching and Mentoring Award, given to a graduate student in the School of Engineering who has demonstrated extraordinary teaching and mentoring as a teaching or research assistant. Staff awards The Ellen J. Mandigo Award for Outstanding Service, presented for the first time in 2009, was made possible by a bequest from Ellen Mandigo, a member of the engineering community for nearly five decades. The award is given annually to staff members who have demonstrated, over an extended period of time, the qualities Ellen Mandigo valued and possessed in great abundance: intelligence, skill, hard work, and dedication to MIT. The 2023 Ellen J. Mandigo Awards for Outstanding Service were given to the following staff members: The Infinite Mile Awards recognize and reward members of the MIT School of Engineering’s administrative, support, sponsored research, and, when appropriate, academic staff. The awards are presented in the categories of excellence, diversity and community, and institutional cooperation. The 2023 Infinite Mile Awards in the School of Engineering were given to the following staff members: 