Solve launches 2019 global challenges 
 At the Feb. 28 Hello World, Hello MIT event celebrating the MIT Stephen A. Schwarzman College of Computing, MIT Solve Executive Director Alex Amouyel announced the launch of Solve’s newest set of global challenges: Circular Economy, Community-Driven Innovation, Early Childhood Development, and Healthy Cities. Solve now seeks tech-based solutions from innovators around the world that address these four challenges, and anyone can submit a relevant solution by the July 1 deadline. “Through open innovation, we find the most promising tech-based social innovators from all around the world, including those already right here at MIT,” said Amouyel. “These Solver teams use AI, machine learning, and many other technologies to positively improve the lives of thousands already, and hopefully millions more in the future.” Finalists will be invited to pitch their solutions to Solve’s Challenge Leadership Group — a judging panel of cross-sector leaders and MIT faculty — at Solve Challenge Finals on Sept. 22 in New York City during U.N. General Assembly Week. The most promising solutions will be selected to form the 2019 Solver Class, and Solve will then deploy its global community of private, public, and nonprofit leaders to build the partnerships needed to scale their work. To date, Solve’s community has committed more than $7 million in funding to Solver teams, in addition to in-kind support such as mentorship, technical expertise, media and conference exposure, and business and entrepreneurship training. Over the past six months, Solve staff consulted more than 500 leaders and experts to determine the 2019 global challenges. Solve hosted 14 Challenge Design Workshops in eight countries — in cities ranging from New York to Hong Kong to Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, to Monterrey, Mexico — to collect feedback from communities around the world. More than 30,000 votes were cast online through Solve’s open innovation platform to influence challenge themes. Circular Economy: How can people create and consume goods that are renewable, repairable, reusable, and recyclable? Community-Driven Innovation: How can citizens and communities create and improve social inclusion and shared prosperity? Early Childhood Development: How can all children under age 5 develop the critical learning and cognitive skills they need to reach their full potential? Healthy Cities: How can urban residents design and live in environments that promote physical and mental health? As a marketplace for social impact, Solve finds tech entrepreneurs from around the world and brokers partnerships across its community to scale their innovative work — driving lasting, transformational change. Organizations interested in joining the Solve community can learn more and apply for membership here. 