Solve announces next global challenges  
  At the March 1 launch event for MIT’s Intelligence Quest, MIT Solve Executive Director Alex Amouyel announced Solve’s next set of challenges: Coastal Communities, Frontlines of Health, Teachers and Educators, and Work of the Future. Solve’s challenges are open to anyone with a relevant solution and the deadline to submit is July 1. Once the new Solver class is selected in September, Solve will then deploy its global community of private, public, and nonprofit leaders to form partnerships these tech entrepreneurs need to scale their impact. “These are big challenges — the type that MIT, founded as a school of practical application, of problem-solving, and of real entrepreneurial spirit, has sought to tackle since its inception,” said Amouyel. “At Solve, we are opening up the doors of a world-class institution to those without an MIT card — because we believe that talent and ingenuity are everywhere.” Over the past six months, the Solve team has consulted over 500 cross-sector leaders and experts to determine the 2018 challenges. Solve hosted 26 Challenge Design Workshops in eight countries, in locations ranging from Detroit, Standing Rock, Riyadh, London, and Paris, to source insights around the most pressing problems communities around the world are facing today. In the spirit of open innovation, Solve encouraged community members to vote and propose new challenge ideas on the Solve website and in doing so received over 12,000 votes. The Solve team will be reviewing all of the solutions to decide the next Solver class and will hold Solveathons to help Solve applicants further refine their ideas. Solve’s Challenge Leadership Groups, comprising cross-sector leaders and MIT faculty, will select the finalists who will then be invited to Solve Challenge Finals on Sept. 23, 2018 in New York City during UN General Assembly Week and will have the opportunity to pitch their solution for the chance to become a part of the next Solver class. Coastal Communities: How can coastal communities mitigate and adapt to climate change while developing and prospering? Frontlines of Health: How can communities invest in frontline
	health workers and services to improve their access to effective and affordable care? Teachers and Educators: How can teachers and educators provide accessible, personalized, and creative learning experiences for all?     Work of the Future: How can those left behind by the technology-driven transformations of work create meaningful and prosperous livelihoods for themselves? Solve is a global community of private, public, and nonprofit leaders accelerating positive impact. Corporates, foundations, investors, and nonprofits interested in supporting the Solver class and joining the community can apply for membership here. 