JDA Software collaborates with MIT to advance research in intelligent supply chains 
 MIT will work with JDA, leveraging their business domain expertise and client base, to advance research in intelligent supply chains. The collaboration aims to improve supply chain performance and customer experiences by leveraging data, computational power, and machine learning. Professor David Simchi-Levi of the Institute for Data, Systems, and Society (IDSS) says, "I am very pleased JDA has entered into a multiyear research collaboration with MIT, and I look forward to working with the JDA Lab and teams. The collaboration will support our students and advance research in machine learning, optimization and consumer behavior modeling. “ This collaboration with JDA brings real world challenges, opportunities, and data, and will help to further the advancement of MIT’s world-class research in supply chain and retail analytics. The MIT and JDA research teams will create real-world use cases to expand predictive demand, intelligent execution, and smart supply chain and retail planning that will yield a unique business strategy. These use cases will explore new data science algorithms that combine natural language processing, predictive behavior, and prescriptive optimization by taking into account past behaviors, and predicting and changing future behaviors. “It is more critical than ever to infuse innovation into every aspect of the supply chain, as edge technologies such as the Internet of Things (IoT) and artificial intelligence (AI) are essential to digitally transforming supply chains. This collaboration allows us to tap into the extraordinary mindshare at MIT to accelerate the research into more intelligent and cognitive capabilities moving forward,” says Desikan Madhavanur, executive vice president and chief development officer at JDA.  “We are excited to be working on the future of supply chain with MIT to double down on researching enhanced, innovative, and value-driven supply chain solutions,” Madhavanur says. The multiyear collaboration will support students on the research teams and the development of knowledge and education. Simchi-Levi will speak at JDA’s annual customer conference, JDA FOCUS 2018, in Orlando, May 6-9, 2018. 