Fully electric Ram 1500: Sleeker, more daring design teased with new photos Stellantis last year revealed that a fully electric Ram 1500 is due in 2024. In the meantime it's provided some teasers suggesting that while this electric truck won't be a wild outlier like the Tesla Cybertruck, it will be something of a design departure from the standard Ram 1500. "Ram will offer fully electrified solutions in the majority of its segments by 2025, and a full portfolio of electrified solutions for all of its segments no later than 2030," the brand declared as part of a long-term strategic plan detailed earlier this week, including photos of a fully electric Jeep due in 2023.  Last month, Ram said that it's looking to its most devoted Ram truck brand fans to help decide what the priorities should be for this upcoming electric truck—with something called RamRevolution.com. There, the brand says, there will be updates on the brand’s EV philosophy, unique visuals and content, and “an ongoing dialogue that will include the opportunity to provide input as Ram EV trucks are developed.”  Teaser for electric Ram 1500 concept With that, the brand released a new teaser rendering of the fully electric Ram 1500 pickup due in 2024, with a profile shot suggesting that the electric Ram will have a rounded profile, along with side-body sculpting that connects to the edge of the bed. And the bed itself looks abbreviated, shielded at the front by aerodynamic sides and, perhaps, with a sort of “midgate” like the upcoming Chevy Silverado EV (and the previous Chevrolet Avalanche). The Ram 1500 is due to be built on the so-called STLA Frame platform, which includes full-length frame rails enclosing a flat battery pack—which is likely to be filled with made-in-America cells.  Teaser for electric Ram 1500 due in 2024 The Ram electric pickup is being developed roughly on the same timeline as a Dodge electric muscle car, also due in 2024. The Dodge EV is due to be shown in concept this year. The company says that the Ram brand will have “fully electrified solutions” in the majority of its segments by 2025—plus a full portfolio of “electrified solutions” for all segments by 2030.  Ram 1500 BEV - 2021 Stellantis EV Day Ram has teased this truck profile before, calling it the “Range Electric Paradigm Breaker,” while also hinting that plug-in hybrids play a part in its truck future. There's a lot more to this story—and more teases about this Ram pickup of the future—on the way over the next couple years. 