SME Launches EV Training & Certification to Tackle Rising Electrification Skill Demand SME has broadened its capacity to meet the rapidly changing talent requirements in today’s electrification market with fresh training and an Electric Vehicle (EV) Fundamentals certification. This enhancement builds on SME’s extensive track record in catering to the automotive industry’s talent demands, while also expediting technological progressions such as additive manufacturing, automation, and SMART manufacturing. EVs are expected to make up 50% of auto sales by 2030; potentially creating over 150,000 new jobs related to the production and maintenance of electric cars, according to the Economic Policy Institute. Additionally, the growth of EVs is also likely to spur job creation across the broader electrification ecosystem. According to a report published by the nonprofit Rewiring America, it is estimated that the U.S. can create some 25 million jobs by 2035 if the economy moves on from fossil fuels to electrification. It is predicted that as charging infrastructure expands and electricity generation shifts toward renewables, new roles will emerge to support the transition to cleaner transportation. As a nationally recognized certifying body for over 50 years in manufacturing, SME obtained input from industrial and academic experts to develop a Body of Knowledge that encompasses the technologies, job roles, competencies, and skills critical to the electrification industry. The training roadmap takes learners through broader manufacturing areas that are foundational to automotive assembly, electric vehicle production, and e-mobility manufacturing. In addition, electrification-specific training is designed to incorporate key learning objectives to prepare learners whether individuals have no background in vehicle production and assembly, or they have experience but need to tailor their knowledge to the EV market. Topics like lithium battery handling and safety, high-energy batteries, and electric vehicle components and manufacturing are covered in-depth. The training, along with the certification, prepares individuals to thrive in a variety of job roles, including assembly technician, production associate, team assembler, manufacturing technician, battery pack assembler, quality control inspector, electric motor assembler, and maintenance technician. SME’s efforts to upskill workers for electric vehicle manufacturing include support from industry groups and states; especially those with heavy concentrations of automotive companies. “The Michigan Manufacturers Association (MMA) applauds SME’s national launch of curriculum and industry-recognized certification supporting individuals working in the assembly and production of electric vehicles,” said MMA President and CEO John J. Walsh. “And as a partner with the SME Education Foundation on expanding the SME PRIME school network to at least 49 Michigan high schools by 2025, we excitedly anticipate the integration of the new curriculum and credentials into PRIME’s career pathways for students.” “To ensure all of North America’s talent has the capabilities needed to adopt new technologies and advance manufacturing, SME has undertaken extensive research into labor demands for EV manufacturing and electrification, including leveraging insights from industry leaders,” said Jeannine Kunz, SME’s chief workforce development officer. “Our collaboration with manufacturers, schools, and workforce organizations will embed in-demand EV expertise and competencies into nationwide career development programs and technical education.” Based on the rising national demand, states are seeing the need to prepare for this emerging industry, including South Carolina, the number one passenger vehicle exporter in the U.S. The state’s automotive industry employs 75,000 and has seen an overall $9.6 billion capital investment from automakers and suppliers in the EV industry since 2017 according to the South Carolina Department of Commerce. “The success we envision as a state in the electric vehicle industry hinges not only on cutting- edge technology but also, and even more crucially, on developing a skilled workforce,” said Brad Neese, vice president, South Carolina Technical College System – Division of Economic Development. “A talent pipeline that is skilled and ready to work serves as the driving force towards achieving our goals.” Similarly, Michigan is focused on upskilling its workforce to maintain leadership in automotive manufacturing amid the transition to electric vehicles. “There’s no denying that Michigan, which is home to nearly 19 percent of all U.S. auto production and over 60 percent of the country’s mobility and vehicle R&D spending, is a powerhouse of automotive manufacturing and innovation,” said Walsh. “As the auto industry’s transition to electrification accelerates, the need for workers with EV-related skillsets is increasingly critical to Michigan’s leadership position in the automotive and mobility space.” “With EV technology revolutionizing the automotive industry, there is a unique opportunity for thousands of individuals to harness its potential into a promising career,” said Robert “Bob” Willig, executive director and CEO of SME. “SME’s strong partnerships with industry and education, commitment to advancing emerging technologies, focus on upskilling the nation’s workforce and dedication to validating competency through certification will all contribute to supporting the evolution of U.S. manufacturing in this way.” SME is committed to supporting the industry’s transition to battery electric vehicles (BEV) and will remain dedicated to closely evaluating the evolving needs of the industrial and educational spheres. As a non-profit whose purpose is to advance manufacturing to drive competitiveness, resiliency and national security, SME will actively identify upcoming challenges and opportunities to position North America at the forefront of electric vehicle design and production. SOURCE: SME 