IRP Systems Expands in India and Boosts Local Production Capabilities IRP Systems, an innovator of high-performance e-powertrain systems, has successfully executed a substantial strategic expansion in the Indian market to support its expanding business and partnerships with prominent OEMs and Tier 1 suppliers. This expansion encompasses the establishment of compliant FAME2 and PLI mass-production capabilities, the formation of a local entity, and the recruitment of automotive industry experts. As part of the company’s hyper-local strategy, IRP has finalized the setup of mass-production capabilities and a robust supply chain through a system of sub-manufacturers and top suppliers in India. The move enables IRP to provide its OEM and Tier 1 customers with efficient, cost-effective, and durable e-powertrain systems in full compliance with FAME2 and PLI scheme. It will also enable IRP to shorten product lead times and reduce transportation-related emissions. IRP’s local production capabilities in India are a vital component of its overall strategy, working in synergy with the establishment of the IRP India entity and the recruitment of local automotive talent. The IRP India team plays a pivotal role in driving the company’s expansion and maintaining strong, symbiotic relationships with its valued customers. This cohesive team is comprised of dedicated experts across various domains, including engineering, customer support and integration, business development, and supply chain management. Their collective expertise not only ensures the seamless execution of IRP’s production capabilities but also enables the company to provide top-notch service and innovative solutions to its clientele, further solidifying its position as a trusted partner in the automotive industry. “We are thrilled to expand our operations to India, one of the fastest-growing and fascinating markets in the world,” said IRP’s CEO, Moran Price. “This step is not only critical to meeting our customers’ needs, it also aligns with our global mission of accelerating electric vehicle adoption worldwide, and our commitment to a sustainable future.” The completion of this strategic move demonstrates the importance the company places on its vision of making EVs accessible to everyone, and will be followed by similar activities in other strategic markets of the company in the near future. SOURCE: IRP Systems 