Nidec’s Motion & Energy India Holds Ground-breaking Ceremony for Greenfield Project Nidec Group is advancing its strategic global investments by establishing a new facility in Hubli-Dharwad, Karnataka, India, to bolster its Motion & Energy business. With three existing Indian facilities currently operating at full capacity, this expansion positions Nidec Motion & Energy for a strong manufacturing presence necessary to keep pace with India’s rapidly expanding economy, which is on track to become the third-largest in the world. The campus will manufacture a wide range of motors, generators, drives, and system solutions to become the India market leader in segments including renewable energy, data centre, industrial, infrastructure, and electric vehicle (EV). This new facility will house six plants to support different segments within Motion & Energy, and will utilize advanced equipment, automation and Nidec Group’s 3Q6S lean manufacturing processes to ensure every unit manufactured is the best in class. Their goal is to enable the campus to become carbon neutral by 2028 utilizing many of the prevailing technologies that currently exist within Nidec. The campus will be Nidec Motion & Energy’s fourth facility in India and the largest yet, spreading over 30 acres of land. Their ambitious factory campus, spanning an impressive 121,400 square meters (equivalent to 30 acres), is taking shape, with 25 acres already acquired and 5 acres currently in the development process. This state-of-the-art facility will encompass a factory area measuring 55,000 square meters and comes with a substantial investment of Rs 450 crore (approximately $55 million) slated for completion by September 2025. Anticipating substantial growth, the company plans to employ a workforce of 800 individuals by September 2025, marking a significant milestone for this project with an expected completion date set for April 1st, 2025. Main attendees included:Mr. Michael Briggs (Senior Vice President & President, Motion & Energy)Mr. Anthony Pickering (President, Motion)Mr. David Sonzogni (President, Electric Power Generation)Mr. Girish D Kulkarni (Managing Director) SOURCE: Nidec 