Mullen Announce Production of the Mullen THREE, a Class 3 EV Truck Mullen announces the first production vehicle, the Mullen THREE, a Class 3 EV truck, has rolled off the line at Mullen’s commercial vehicle assembly facility located in Tunica, Mississippi. A video of this milestone event can be found at www.MullenUSA.com. We have been true to our commercial Class 3 vehicle production commitments and have now achieved a significant milestone with the first trucks rolling off the line Mullen will be gradually ramping up production rate through the balance of this calendar year. Once full acceleration has been achieved, Class 3 production capacity at the Tunica facility is currently planned at 3,000 vehicles annually per shift. As electric vehicle adoption rates increase, Mullen plans to add a second shift for Class 3 production, which will increase capacity to 6,000 total vehicles per year. During the ramp up in volume of the Mullen THREE, the production testing and launch of the Mullen ONE, Class 1 EV Cargo Van will also take place in Tunica, achieving deliveries on customer orders for both commercial Class 1 and Class 3 vehicles by year end. To date, the Company has received $79 million in purchase orders for the Mullen THREE, Class 3 EV trucks from Randy Marion Automotive Group and MGT Lease Company. Mullen’s Tunica commercial manufacturing center includes over 120,000 square feet and is situated on over 100 acres. The facility is focused on production of Class 1 and Class 3 commercial EV vehicles and is in close proximity to all major rail lines, interstates, Mississippi river systems, and air logistics, placing it in a primary logistical center of North America. The Mullen THREE, with a MSRP starting at $68,500, qualifies for $7,500 in federal tax incentives, is an efficient Class 3 low cab forward EV truck featuring an 11,000 Gross Vehicle Weight Rating, a tight turning diameter of 38 feet, and excellent visibility for superior maneuverability on narrow city streets. This versatile chassis provides a clean top-of-rail for easy upfitting with bodies up to 14 feet long and over 5,800 pounds of payload. SOURCE: Mullen 