Stellantis Strengthens its Performance in Europe with its Electrified Range In a market still affected by unprecedented disruptions and transformations, Stellantis reports solid performance in the first half of 2023 with almost 1,44 million registrations in Europe 30 (PC+CV), up 5.3 per cent compared with the same period in 2022, achieving a total market share of 19.1%[1]. Stellantis is riding the momentum in the commercial vehicle market, having confirmed its sales leadership in Europe with almost 292,900 units sold, up 5.3% compared to H1 2022 and with a stable market share of over 30%. Stellantis is also accelerating its pace towards zero-emission mobility, having climbed the podium in several countries. The Company now has 24 BEVs on the market and will nearly double that by the end of 2024; currently, Stellantis electric vehicles such as the Peugeot e-208 and New Fiat 500 are topping the charts in the European electrified market. Overall, in the BEV market, Stellantis dominates the A segment (39% share), the B and B-SUV segments (62% and 53% share respectively) and the CV segment (46% share). Stellantis also launched Free2move Charge, a 360-degree ecosystem that will seamlessly deliver charging and energy management to address all EV customer needs, anywhere and in any way. Managed by the new Stellantis Charging & Energy Business Unit, Free2move Charge addresses electric vehicle customer needs at home, in their business and on-the-go. “Thanks to its brands, Stellantis is a true power machine in marketing”, said Uwe Hochgeschurtz, Stellantis Chief Operating Officer, Enlarged Europe. “Our brands have a strong footprint, each with their own personality to fit into different areas of the market, delivering growing performance and fostering the entire Company’s future. Our solid commercial performance, paired to First Half of 2023 double-digit financial results, serves as proof that we are on track towards zero-emission mobility, which will respect the environment and be accessible to all. I would like to thank all our employees and our partners for their dedication and commitment in achieving these results, while we are taking further steps in the implementation of our Dare Forward 2030 strategic plan”. Sales performance highlights – June and H1 2023In the first half of 2023, Stellantis dominates various markets across Europe: SOURCE: Stellantis 