2024 GEM Redefines LSV Industry with 30+ Automotive-like EV Refinements Waev is introducing the new 2024 GEM passenger and utility vehicles with more than 30 modern refinements to expand adoption and provide a more automotive-like driving experience. LSVs are street-legal, four-wheeled vehicles, certified to Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 500, with a top speed of 25 mph and a gross vehicle weight rating of less than 3,000 lbs. The leader in LSVs, GEM is designed for individuals, campuses, communities and cities, and can be driven on most U.S. roads posted 35 mph or less. GEM passenger and utility vehicles provide drivers with a safe, sustainable, cost-efficient EV alternative to sedans, vans and trucks. GEM’s low speeds, right size and high visibility sight lines help create a safer environment for pedestrians, bikers, cyclists and vehicles to coexist. “People are realizing that not every vehicle in their fleet or garage needs to travel over 200 miles or operate at highway speeds. GEM provides an affordable, accessible, convenient and enjoyable alternative way to move,” said Keith Simon, CEO, Waev Inc. “In recent years, we’ve seen a growing number of individuals make the transition to GEM for daily transportation in their community. And more commercial customers are recognizing that GEM vehicles can easily do the job of a truck or van. Today, we’re redefining the LSV to be an even more viable alternative to an automobile – further expanding the lifestyles and operations that GEM can serve.” The entirely new 2024 electrical architecture results in more than 30 modern EV enhancements that redefine LSV performance, expand adoption and provide a more automotive-like driving experience. All GEM vehicles continue to be equipped with a backup camera, hazard lights, brake lights and turn signals. All 2024 GEM batteries are maintenance free. There is a battery and charging option for everyone, depending on what matters most – range, charge time, cost, flexibility or life cycles. These new options give drivers confidence to transition to an EV. *GEM model, battery type, sunlight exposure, payload and terrain will impact range. All four GEM models now feature a more refined, sleek design and new upgrade options to elevate the vehicle appearance and functionality. Additional premium finishes, including a panoramic skyroof, 16-inch sport wheels, low glow feature lighting and vegan leather seats continue to ensure personalization of each GEM vehicle. Through the 2024 EV refinements, GEM maintains its attractive price points – making GEM vehicles appealing and viable alternatives to full-sized electric sedans and trucks. To learn more, visit gemcar.com or https://bit.ly/GEMBuild. SOURCE: Waev 