WiTricity New Program to Speed Automakers to Wireless EV Charging WiTricity, today announced the FastTrack Integration Program for automotive OEMs that allows for an initial vehicle integration in just three months, dramatically accelerating automaker testing of wireless charging on existing and future EV platforms. Wireless charging will be fully enabled and operational on the automaker’s EV platform using the WiTricity Halo™ receiver and the WiTricity Halo™ 11kW charger. “Knowing the challenges of automotive timelines, we are committed to help OEMs move more quickly to adopt the wireless charging technology that customers want,” said Alex Gruzen, CEO of WiTricity. “We have extensive experience upgrading existing vehicles such as the Tesla Model 3 and the Ford Mustang Mach-E to support wireless charging, and in working with early adopters of factory-installed wireless charging. WiTricity can partner with OEMs not just on evaluation, but on delivery from our global supply chain of fully automotive-grade wireless charging solutions for production programs.” WiTricity’s FastTrack Integration Program extends to helping OEMs develop dealer-installable wireless charging options that meet market demand while production programs are in development. This program delivers test- and evaluation-ready wireless charging with a complete and elegant implementation of both hardware and software. WiTricity’s solutions adhere to the global automotive standard for wireless charging ratified by the Society of Automotive Engineers in 2020. In an independent survey conducted by Tidewatch Partners in June 2023, consumers with loyalty to premium automotive brands indicated that 80% of them would switch to another premium automotive brand if that brand were to offer wireless charging. “We’ve done extensive research with EV consumers and with fleets looking to move to electric vehicles,” said Gruzen. “We know that consumers prefer EVs with wireless charging, and we know that it solves a host of challenges for fleets as well.” SOURCE: WiTricity 