HiPhi to make European Public Debut at Goodwood Festival of Speed China’s Best-Selling Premium EV Brand, HiPhi will be making its European debut at this year’s Goodwood Festival of Speed, from 13-16 July 2023. Along with the first European public showcase of the brand, the event will also see the UK dynamic debut of the HiPhi Z and the European debut of the HiPhi Y. The groundbreaking, all-electric luxury GT HiPhi Z will be taking part in the famous Goodwood hillclimb twice daily during the First Glance Run and the brand new, all-electric midsize SUV, the HiPhi Y will be on display in the Electric Avenue. This will be the Y’s first public appearance outside of China following on from its reveal at the Shanghai International Auto Show earlier this year. The HiPhi Z is an all-electric luxury GT, and the embodiment of LuxTech. Offering an unrivalled combination of futuristic design, luxury, technology, and driving experience, HiPhi Z started deliveries in China at the end of 2022. It provides a maximum output of 494kW via dual electric motors, giving acceleration from 0-62mph (100km/h) in 3.8 seconds. The 120kWh battery offers a potential range of over 430 miles (CLTC). The model showcases a host of innovations, including the world-first HiPhi Bot, a robotic, multi-axis arm infotainment system with four degrees of freedom and eight-direction high-speed motion that interact with the AI assistant to bring it to life. The HiPhi Y will make its UK public debut as a part of the Electric Avenue. This follows on from the global reveal which took place at the Shanghai International Auto Show earlier this year. HiPhi Y boasts a very spacious interior, with a length of 4938mm, wheelbase of 2950mm, and a width of 1958mm. As a high-tech luxury all-electric SUV, HiPhi Y adheres to the brand’s LuxTech concept integrating the luxurious spaciousness of HiPhi X and extreme performance characteristics of HiPhi Z, bringing a new high-end product to the midsize all-electric SUV market. It also incorporates the unique roof doors first introduced in the HiPhi X. HiPhi CTO and Co-Founder Mark Stanton said: “Goodwood Festival of Speed is an iconic event with a truly global audience. It’s a spectacle that celebrates not only a rich motoring history but also the cutting-edge present, which makes it the perfect backdrop for us to introduce the groundbreaking HiPhi brand and our HiPhi Y and Z to many people for the very first time.” The appearance at Festival of Speed comes on the back of the recent announcement of HiPhi’s expansion into Europe. The HiPhi X and the HiPhi Z are now available to order in Germany and Norway and the first vehicles are already registered for road use, following inspection by TÜV SÜD. Customers will soon be able to experience the dual flagship models at Europe’s first HiPhi Hub showroom, located at Munich Airport. Product information is available at the new global HiPhi website. Further European markets will be announced later in the year. SOURCE: HiPhi 