Stellantis to Invest in a New ‘grEEn-campus’ in Italy Stellantis  has announced its Mirafiori site in Turin, Italy, joins the ‘grEEn-campus’ workplace transformation program that aims to strengthen the roots of Stellantis’ automotive design, R&D and central functions through innovative, sustainable, and collaborative designs. Mirafiori is the next Stellantis site in the first phase of the program, joining facilities in Poissy, France, and Rüsselsheim, Germany. The grEEn-campus is a place for exchanging and sharing ideas to promote creativity and efficiency, and ultimately create a highly desirable work environment. The transformation program directly supports Stellantis’ carbon net zero by 2038 target outlined in the Dare Forward 2030 strategy. The “EE” in grEEn-campus represents both Stellantis’ commitment to the Environment and the Employees: Energy positive to protect the Environment as well as a mindset of constant Education to deliver a great Employee Experience. “With each new grEEn-campus, we are rethinking our iconic buildings to better respond to our new hybrid ways of working, as a significant number of our colleagues are taking advantage of flexible remote working, while also contributing to the Company’s carbon footprint reduction,” said Xavier Chéreau, Stellantis Chief Human Resources & Transformation Officer. “We want to offer our employees a completely reimagined experience in terms of time spent on site by encouraging intra- and inter-business exchanges conducive to co-development and collective intelligence, complementing the experience of working remotely. It’s an ambitious project, both for the Company and its employees, and one that will help us achieve our goals of reaching carbon neutrality and becoming a great place to work.” The redesign of the historic buildings, in combination with other initiatives undertaken by Stellantis, contributes to the goal of becoming a carbon net zero corporation by 2038, all scopes included, with single-digit percentage compensation of the remaining emissions. Once open, the new office buildings will be energy positive. In addition, renovated and existing buildings aim to be carbon neutral in use. The grEEn-campus facilities will offer breakthrough energy and thermal performance through: The transformation program supports Stellantis’ commitment to social and environmental responsibility: Stellantis grEEn-campuses are located in core countries where Stellantis has a rich history. Work has started at the Poissy location, the detailed design study of Rüsselsheim has been completed, and the Mirafiori project is launching. Mirafiori’s historic office building on Corso Agnelli is also included in the initiative. Additional grEEn-campuses are to be announced at later dates. This new triple-digit million euros investment at Mirafiori demonstrates the Company’s commitment to Italy and follows other positive developments in the Turin area, including: SOURCE: Stellantis 