XPENG Chooses ACCESS To Provide In-Vehicle Infotainment XPENG, today announces that it has selected the ACCESS Twine™ for Car (Twine4Car) in-vehicle infotainment (IVI) solution to provide apps and games—including prominent streaming services— for its new range of electric vehicles. This will start with the all-electric XPENG P7 sedan, with European deliveries commencing this summer. Moving forward, existing XPENG drivers will also have the option to upgrade their cars to include Access’ Twine4Car IVI through an over-the-air (OTA) software update. “We want to provide our drivers in Europe with a new level of sophistication and ease by using a more thoughtful approach to mobility,” says Eric Xu, VP International Markets, XPENG. “We selected ACCESS Twine4Car as our in-vehicle infotainment provider to create a mobility experience that’s more intuitive and enjoyable—our vehicles are designed to move people emotionally as well as physically.” The Twine4Car Platform is an industry-leading automotive content and app service solution for connected car infotainment, enabling OEMs to provide branded entertainment services. The Twine4Car app store includes some of the most used and easily recognizable social and productivity apps, making it possible for drivers and passengers to work and play from their cars while parked or charging. ACCESS is also providing XPENG with a new game portal that includes console-class games with the latest high-compression streaming technology, enabling users to play even with low-speed connections. “Our unique ability to provide an IVI system designed for next-generation cars combined with a dedicated app store featuring awesome games, must-have apps, and leading video services, enables XPENG to provide infotainment experiences that will delight its drivers,” says Masahiro Aono, CEO, ACCESS Europe. “Whether its drivers wanting to stream their favorite songs and podcasts, or passengers looking to watch their favorite videos and access their favorite social media platforms, we look forward to enabling connected infotainment experiences that match the beauty and quality of XPENG’s exciting new electric vehicles.” As the next generation of IVI platforms is deployed, vehicles need more than just audio services and navigation. Twine4Car acts as a central hub for all in-vehicle services and brings content from global media partners, providing a wide range of apps, TV services, games, and VOD offerings for XPENG’s electric vehicles. Features include: SOURCE: XPENG 