Mullen Launches AI-Powered PERSONA Vehicle Technology Mullen, today announces the integration of AI-powered PERSONA vehicle technology into its overall commercial and consumer vehicle lineups. PERSONA, originally developed for the Mullen FIVE, is an advanced interactive AI camera/sensor and video monitoring system that utilizes facial recognition technology to unlock/lock vehicles and completely personalize the overall vehicle experience for the driver. In addition to unlocking the vehicle and customizing driver-specific vehicle settings, initial PERSONA functionality will also include Security Fence, Pet and Occupant Safe Mode, Advanced Vehicle Charging, and AI-Powered Emergency Response. PERSONA was first consumer tested on the Mullen FIVE EV Crossover during the 2022 “Strikingly Different” U.S. Tour. Firsthand feedback received and survey data from the tour were extremely positive, with a majority of the participants indicating that PERSONA was a unique technology and concept they could see themselves using. “PERSONA is a very cool feature; being able to personalize it to who I am is great, and the fact that it is able to learn about the specific driver of the car as they drive it more and more is one of the coolest features I have seen in a vehicle.” – James M, 2022 Strikingly Different tour participant “The PERSONA feature was mind blowing. The added safety is a feature that would be a major part of the decision making.” – Peggy J, 2022 Strikingly Different tour participant “Love the idea of it being able to recognize who is driving and set up the vehicle for that person. The amount of times I have had to reset things after my girlfriend gets in is something I would love to not have to do.” – Oliver Z, 2022 Strikingly Different tour participant Taking the immensely positive reception into consideration, and with further R&D revealing that the PERSONA technology has a variety of commercial applications, Mullen made the decision to integrate relevant PERSONA functionality into its commercial vehicles, as well. An ideal commercial use case scenario for PERSONA is with high-volume package, last-mile delivery cargo vans, promoting greater delivery efficiency and driver safety. In many cases, drivers on high-volume routes with multiple stops on each street are required to secure their delivery vehicle before each package delivery. This can often result in added time and stress and reduced overall efficiency for the route and driver. PERSONA’s facial recognition can solve this issue by recognizing the driver from a distance of 8-10 feet and automatically unlocking the vehicle and turning it on – ready for the driver to jump in and head to the next stop down the street. Another example of PERSONA use case is in the Bollinger B1 SUV in an off-grid scenario, where the B1 owner needs the ability to secure valuables, such as smartphones, keys, wallets, etc., in the vehicle. With facial recognition unlocking and “Camp Mode” enabled in the vehicle, the driver would be able to hike or swim without worrying about their valuables. “Right from the beginning, when we first introduced PERSONA at the 2021 LA Auto Show, the amount of positive feedback we’ve received has been far beyond anything we imagined; so, of course, we had to expand it for additional use cases,” said David Michery, CEO and chairman of Mullen Automotive. “We are actively working on the broad commercialization of this AI-based proprietary technology.” The public will have the opportunity to experience and test out PERSONA firsthand during the 2023 “Strikingly Different” U.S. tour, planned for fall 2023, and also at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in January 2024. Both events will feature several Mullen EVs, including the Mullen FIVE and Mullen FIVE RS crossovers, Mullen ONE commercial Class 1 van, Mullen THREE commercial Class 3 truck, as well as the new Mullen GT high-performance sports car. More information on the 2023 “Strikingly Different” U.S. tour is available here. SOURCE: Mullen 