SiliconAuto to Design and Sell State-of-the-art Semiconductors for Automotive Industry Stellantis and Foxconn today announced the creation of SiliconAuto, a 50/50 joint venture dedicated to designing and selling a family of state-of-the-art semiconductors to supply the automotive industry, including Stellantis, starting in 2026. The joint venture combines Foxconn’s development capabilities and domain expertise in the ICT industry with Stellantis’ deep understanding of diverse mobility needs around the world. SiliconAuto will provide customers an auto industry-centric source of semiconductors for the growing number of computer-controlled features and modules, particularly those needed for electric vehicles. Products from SiliconAuto will support the future semiconductor needs of Stellantis, Foxconn and other customers. This includes STLA Brain, Stellantis’ new electrical/electronic and software architecture with full over-the-air updating capabilities. “Stellantis will benefit from a robust supply of essential components, which is critical to fueling the rapid, software-defined transformation of our products,” said Stellantis Chief Technology Officer Ned Curic. “Our goal is to build vehicles that seamlessly connect with our customers’ daily lives and deliver class-leading capabilities years after they leave the assembly line. With this joint venture, we can create purpose-built innovations with an efficient partnership.” “We look forward to a future of extraordinary EV mobility underpinned by the vertical integration capabilities and resources SiliconAuto secures for our partners,” said Foxconn Chief Product Officer Jerry Hsiao. “The collaborative energy will propel our customers to become more competitive.” SiliconAuto will be headquartered in the Netherlands. The management team includes executives from both founding partners. Stellantis will provide input to SiliconAuto to enable and deliver capabilities needed by future battery electric vehicles and multi-energy vehicle platforms. The joint venture is the product of a December 2021 agreement between Stellantis and Foxconn to develop a family of semiconductors for automotive applications. In addition to SiliconAuto, Stellantis and Foxconn have the Mobile Drive joint venture focused on developing smart cockpits enabled by consumer electronics, human-machine interfaces and services. SOURCE: Stellantis 