Advanced Battery Concepts and Quench EV Chargers Announce Strategic Collaboration for EV Charging Advanced Battery Concepts (ABC), and Quench EV Chargers announce a joint strategic collaboration to provide electric vehicle (EV) owners with reliable, fast and convenient charging, completely independent of traditional power grids. The collaboration between Quench and ABC is timely and vital. The U.S. government predicts a need for 2.5 million EV charging sites by 2030. Many sources suggest that the U.S. electrical power grid cannot support a 28 percent annual growth rate from now to 2030. “That’s a big concern”, says Michael Everett, ABC’s president. “ABC’s bipolar battery-based Energy Storage System (ESS) levels demand peaks and reduces costs to consumers in three ways. First, by sourcing in-coming electricity during lower-cost ‘off-peak’ hours. Second, our ESS minimizes charging station time-of-use, because direct DC-to-DC (Direct Current) charging is faster and more efficient than (Alternating Current) AC-to-DC charging which is the current charging station ‘norm’. Third, there is a constant supply of energy to the charger. Faster charging provides lower per-visit time, cost and allows more EV’s per hour”, he added. ABC’s ESS can receive, manage and store electric energy from every source—power grid, wind, solar or a combination. This broad input capability is of particular importance as concerns about the rising demand for energy is discussed. ABC’s storage system’s versatility is an important environmental benefit and one not missed by the Quench team in their discussions with ABC. At the core of this versatile system is a new and highly efficient bipolar battery breakthrough called the “EverGreenSeal™ Battery”. Bipolar batteries are widely respected for uniform electric current and overall power “density”. These batteries do not “steal” lithium resources away from the EV’s they intend to power. They don’t use lithium. Instead, these patented and highly efficient batteries rely on readily available, domestically-sourced materials, low-cost manufacturing and a unique structural design that allows for total recycling of active chemistry and battery case elements. Here again, Quench management, which is also concerned about the global environment, saw these factors as vital to the future of EV charging. “We are pleased to partner with Advanced Battery Concepts to bring their innovative energy storage solutions to our customers. This collaboration allows us to enhance our product offerings and provide EV charging solutions that cater to the unique needs of the U.S. market. ABC’s ESS will help address peak draw from charging stations, reducing demand and associated power costs for each charging location. With Quench Chargers and ABC’s advanced storage technology, customers can enjoy the convenience of charging their electric vehicles in even the most remote locations. This teamwork empowers every EV driver to embark on a journey with unwavering confidence,” said Bjoern Stoll, CEO, Quench EV Chargers Americas. SOURCE: Advanced Battery Concepts 