Tevva Develops Regen Braking System 4x More Energy Than a Traditional Air Brake System British electric vehicle manufacturer Tevva has successfully completed development of the regenerative braking system on its 7.5t battery-electric truck. Part of this involved working with global Tier 1 supplier ZF to integrate its Electronic Brake System (EBS) for use in zero-emission Tevva electric trucks. ZF’s Commercial Vehicle Solutions (CVS) is the world’s largest supplier to the commercial vehicle industry offering solutions for vehicle motion control, integrated safety, automated driving, and electric mobility. ZF worked with Tevva to adapt its EBS for deployment in the Tevva 7.5t battery electric vehicle – which uses a blend of regenerative and compressed air brakes to add an extra layer of safety and responsiveness for drivers. Tevva’s engineers successfully met a range of stringent testing criteria for the company’s truck to receive ZF’s approval, working on fine-tuning the electric truck’s vehicle control unit (VCU) and enhance compatibility with the EBS. The result is a system that recuperates up to four times* more energy than a conventional compressed air brake system, optimising the range of the Tevva truck. Testing of the adapted system, which took place at the ZF test track in Jeversen, Germany, involved a variety of conditions, gradients and surface types. Technological advancements allow a modern EBS system to control the blending of friction braking with the e-motor, reducing brake wear and tear. The system transfers the driver’s deceleration request electronically to all braking system components to shorten response time, balance brake forces and provide ease of braking and efficient brake management. ZF’s Heiko Eggers, Head of Commercial Vehicle EMEA Application Engineering for Braking and ADAS, said: “Our broad product portfolio, including ZF’s standardised Electronic Braking System, enables faster time-to-market for new, innovative market players such as Tevva. Their commitment and agile engineering expertise allowed us to meet our stringent safety requirements and complete our project. We look forward to seeing the first Tevva trucks on the road.” Tevva’s Uzair Jilani, Lead Engineer, Drive and Brake Systems, said: “We have worked hard to secure a ringing endorsement from arguably one of the world’s most significant Tier 1 suppliers. Working with ZF is a crucial step in the momentum we are building as a truck manufacturer. The system has been adapted for use with our regen system; when the brake pedal is pushed, most of the ‘braking’ is handled by regen, meaning that the drive system slows the vehicle down. “The conventional braking system is still needed to bring the truck to a complete stop, but this double layer of safety is an excellent aid to more efficient driving. It also means that the hardware undergoes less strain to extend the braking system’s life in the long run.” Tevva’s 7.5t battery-electric vehicle (BEV) has this year begun mass production at the company’s London facility. This will be followed by a 7.5t hydrogen-electric truck, which benefits from a hydrogen range-extender that enhances vehicle range to 354 miles (570 km). The Tevva BEV offers up to 140 miles (227 kilometres) from its 105-kWh battery on a single charge and is ideal for last-mile and urban delivery fleets. SOURCE: Tevva 