Mullen and Phenix to Develop EV Truck Body for Commercial Fleets Mullen announces today the development of a light-weight truck body for its Class 3 EV with Phenix Truck Bodies & Van Equipment (Phenix). Phenix will develop a unique, lightweight body configuration designed to satisfy the needs of Class 3 service body truck fleets, with the goal of offering an EV alternative to ICE vehicles. Upon upfit completion, the Class 3 vehicle will be made available to Phenix commercial fleet customers for evaluation and pilot programs. Phenix Truck Bodies & Van Equipment, based in Southern California, is one of California’s largest work truck, van equipment and specialty truck body manufacturers. For 45 years, Phenix has designed and manufactured custom work trucks and fire apparatus for the most selective customers. Long-term customers include: Southern California Edison, Southern California Gas Company, Los Angeles County Fire Department, San Diego Gas & Electric, USDA-Forest Service and the cities of Los Angeles and San Diego. Phenix is a California Public Utilities Commission (“CPUC”) Clearinghouse Certified Minority Business Enterprise (“MBE”).The Mullen THREE features a tight turning diameter of 38 ft. and excellent visibility for superior maneuverability on narrow city streets. Its versatile chassis provides a clean top-of-rail for easy upfitting with bodies up to 14 feet in length and over 5,800 lbs. of payload.“Since revealing our Mullen THREE all-electric tilt cab in March, we have had very positive feedback and strong interest,” said John Schwegman, chief commercial officer, Mullen Automotive. “With availability later this year, we are excited to have fleet customers begin piloting our Class 3 product and experience how an all-electric truck can work in their fleet of vehicles.”“Phenix, in its 45-year history, has outfitted vehicles for some of the largest commercial public utility customers in the western U.S. with a focus on Southern California,” said David Michery, CEO and chairman of Mullen Automotive. “Having the opportunity to add our commercial EVs into the mix with Phenix and their large fleet business is a great step forward for our commercial business.” Pre-production units of the Mullen THREE are available nationally for customer demos and test drives. Fleets, municipalities, and small businesses can request a demo of Mullen’s commercial vehicles here. Production of the Mullen THREE will take place at Mullen’s manufacturing facility in Tunica, Mississippi, with deliveries expected in August and September 2023. SOURCE: Mullen 