Electrogenic Reveals Customer Jaguar E-Type Fitted with ‘Drop In’ EV Kitv British EV company Electrogenic, renowned internationally for its market-leading, classic car EV conversions, has revealed the first customer Jaguar E-Type (or XK-E) fitted with one of its game changing plug-and-play, ‘drop-in’ EV conversion kits. The stunning 1962 Series 1 Roadster has been transformed by the Oxford, UK based firm’s revolutionary, proprietary EV powertrain kit – future-proofing the beautiful British design icon for years to come. The easy to install, entirely reversible package – which can be fitted by one of Electrogenic’s growing international network of partner installers – gives the stunning 1960s machine sensational, clean electric performance – transforming useability and ensuring total reliability. Thanks to Electrogenic’s clever packaging and innovative battery pack construction, the electrified classic is also lighter than the original ‘60s machine. The ‘drop-in’ kits feature the innovative tech that has underpinned Electrogenic’s sustained growth in recent years – developed and honed over the course of countless bespoke EV conversion projects. The kits are offered globally via Electrogenic’s partner network. Steve Drummond, Co-Founder, Electrogenic, said: “We’re delighted to reveal the first customer E-Type fitted with our game-changing drop-in conversion kit. Thanks to our cutting-edge, proprietary EV technology, the E-Type – for many the most beautiful car of all – is now just as good to drive as it is to look at. Our drop-in kit range preserves this true British design icon for the future, ensuring it can be admired – and enjoyed – by generations to come.” The Jaguar E-Type conversion package is just one option from Electrogenic’s comprehensive ‘drop-in’ kit range, offered under Electrogenic’s ‘Powered by Electrogenic’ technology arm. The outfit also offers ingeniously packaged, easy to install, EV powertrain solutions for the Land Rover, classic Mini, Porsche 911 and Triumph Stag, future-proofing these iconic models. The drop-in kits are carefully designed so they’re simple to install; they can be easily fitted by a qualified technician. Slotting neatly into the existing architecture of the vehicle, they are also entirely reversible. The kits are offered alongside Electrogenic’s world-renowned bespoke conversions. First Customer E-Type: an Icon Transformed The first E-Type to be converted with Electrogenic’s kit, finished in a stunning hue of opalescent silver blue, sports the E43 package which equips the classic with 43kW of brand-new, OEM-grade batteries for 150+ miles of range in real world driving. With 160bhp (120kW) and, crucially, 460 lb/ft (620Nm) of instant torque (at the crank), the E43 kit equipped E-Type can hit 60 mph in under 6 seconds. Thanks to those reserves of torque it packs real performance punch at any speed. The kits drive through a neatly packaged single-speed, fixed ratio transmission The E-Type Kit range also includes larger-capacity E48 and E63 options, which feature 48kW and 63kW of batteries, delivering 160 and 200+ miles of range respectively. Full details on the E-Type Kit range can be found here. As with all Electrogenic’s market-leading conversions, the batteries are densely packed together using the firm’s ingenious mounting system. Thanks to the packaging of the cells and carefully designed battery boxes – an impressive amount of battery capacity is accommodated within the E-Type’s original structure, despite its extremely tight interior dimensions. For E-Types, the motor bolts into the space vacated by the gearbox and the cleverly packaged batteries are nestled low down in the engine bay, replacing the cast-iron engine block, and at the rear of the car instead of the fuel tank and spare wheel. Weight distribution is carefully optimised to ensure superb, natural handling. In the E63 model, additional battery packs are tucked away in the space behind the rear seat, again carefully placed to ensure superb weight distribution. Thanks to the use of cutting-edge, lightweight componentry, extra weight is kept to a minimum – in fact, the E43 and E48 variants are both lighter than the standard car. Even in large battery E63 form, an Electrogenic electrified E-Type weighs no more than a conventionally powered example. The sophisticated packages have been extensively developed by Electrogenic’s engineering and software development teams to include all the modern features a driver could need. The E-Type packages have carefully optimised Eco, Sport and Traffic profiles, honed over the course of an extensive testing programme, along with energy-recouping regen for the brakes and throttle. The settings are infinitely configurable and can be tailored to an owner’s specific requirements. The original Smiths instruments have been repurposed to display vital information; the fuel gauge now shows state of charge, the oil temperature gauge is now charger temperature, engine temperature is now motor temperature, while RPM shows RPM of motor with a scale factor of half. Electrogenic’s E-Type kit is compatible with Series 1 to 3 cars, in both Coupe and Roadster form. All kits include rapid CCS charging as standard, for total convenience. A full charge via CCS takes around 50 minutes. Drummond: “Having seen extraordinary international demand since we launched our drop-in kit range at the end of last year, it’s immensely satisfying to now be delivering kit converted classics – like this stunning E-Type – to new owners all over the world, ready to be enjoyed for decades to come. “We can’t wait to continue delivering clean, reliable classic motoring to enthusiasts around the globe at scale, working in close partnership with our ever-growing network of installer partners. “These kit deliveries truly mark the dawn of a new chapter for the company, taking the business to a whole new level. It’s certainly an exciting time to be at Electrogenic, and this is just the start. Watch this space for more announcements in the coming weeks and months.” Electrogenic’s drop-in kits feature the firm’s sector-leading, proprietary EV technology – the tech that has underpinned the company’s rapid rise and sustained growth in recent years. The kits are defined by their quality and depth of engineering, developed in-house by a research and development team comprising leading automotive engineers, programmers and electrical experts. The range of drop-in kits reflects Electrogenic’s approach of developing and manufacturing its own technology, which includes in-house designed software, printed circuit boards (PCBs) and digital dashboards, as well as vehicle management technology that can integrate any of the latest motors, battery modules, etc. to incorporate the best new tech into its conversion packages. The drop-in kits also use highly innovative mechanical componentry, including a unique system for creating high-density battery packs, as well as exceptionally compact in-line and transverse reduction gearboxes, all manufactured in the UK. The cleverly packaged units ensure that for each ‘drop-in’ kit variant, the existing vehicles’ existing structure and architecture is preserved. This approach ensures that all Electrogenic conversions are entirely reversible. The ‘drop-in’ kit range is offered internationally through a rapidly-growing network of partner installers; these include several outfits in the USA. The kits are offered alongside Electrogenic’s world-renowned bespoke conversions. SOURCE: Electrogenic 