Lilium and FlightSafety International Sign Flight Simulator and Training Agreement Lilium, has agreed to partner with premier professional aviation training company, FlightSafety International (FSI). The agreement establishes FlightSafety as the exclusive developer and provider for flight training devices for the Lilium Jet. This will include industry-leading, immersive, and mixed-reality simulators for training, as well as an early flight simulator representative of the Lilium Jet cockpit, to be used by Lilium engineers. The simulator, known as the e-Sim (“e” for engineering), will be integrated into Lilium’s ground-based aircraft systems integration laboratory (SiLab), and used by Lilium teams as part of the testing and certification of the revolutionary Lilium Jet. The e-Sim will be an important asset in the Lilium Jet development program, enabling pilot familiarization before the start of flight testing and an appropriate environment for the verification of aircraft requirements. The e-Sim will also support type-certification of the Lilium Jet by providing means of compliance for demonstrating that the aircraft conforms to certification requirements. Additionally, FSI will develop and deliver training programs, including online training program modules, for the qualification of future Lilium pilots and mechanics worldwide. FSI continues to support the emerging Advance Air Mobility (AAM) market with the latest innovative and cutting-edge technology to support distance learning training curriculums and the latest advances in training device manufacturing. FSI operates the world’s largest fleet of advanced full-flight simulators at Learning Centers and training locations in the United States, Canada, France, and the United Kingdom. FSI has manufactured simulators for Airbus, Boeing, Bombardier, Embraer, and many other commercial aircraft manufacturers. FSI’s training devices are approved by the FAA, EASA, and other aviation regulatory authorities worldwide. Qualification of the first training devices and development of training programs will be supported by the expertise of Lufthansa Aviation Training (LAT). Sebastien Borel, Chief Commercial Officer, Lilium said: “This partnership represents another critical milestone that will support the Lilium Jet’s progress through certification and commercial launch. Thanks to FSI’s vast experience and expertise in the field of aircraft simulators, we look forward to enabling all Lilium pilots to get familiar with our aircraft before commercial launch.” Nate Speiser, EVP Sales and Marketing, FlightSafety International said: “It is our mission to deliver best-in-class pilot training, globally, while working with new partners to bring new, sustainable modes of transport with cost-effective training capabilities. We are excited to be working with leading eVTOL manufacturer Lilium, to advance and deliver training that empowers and prepares pilots for the world of eVTOL flight.” SOURCE: Lilium 