Northvolt Reveals New Program to Devlop Aviation Battery Systems Northvolt’s subsidiary Cuberg today unveiled a new program dedicated to developing high-performance battery systems that will enable safe, sustainable electric flight. Cuberg will spearhead the program through the design and build of system solutions for the aviation industry based on its innovative lithium metal battery technology. Peter Carlsson, CEO and Co-Founder of Northvolt, comments: “Northvolt is establishing itself as a leading global provider of sustainable battery cells for the automotive segment as well as complete battery systems for the heavy industrial and energy storage markets. With our aviation systems program, we will leverage Cuberg’s next-generation lithium metal cell technology together with our battery manufacturing experience to bring end-to-end energy solutions to the skies.” Since publishing externally validated performance data on its lithium metal cell technology in July 2022, Cuberg has made significant advances toward a fully integrated battery system. First, Cuberg has developed a 20 Ah commercial-format lithium metal pouch cell with specific energy of 405 Wh/kg which has been shipped to customers worldwide. Second, Cuberg has engineered and produced an aviation module, based around its 20 Ah lithium metal cells, with specific energy of 280 Wh/kg and energy density of 320 Wh/L. Third, the Cuberg lithium metal module platform has achieved passive propagation resistance during a thermal runaway verification test campaign, a key step in certification of aviation battery systems. Richard Wang, Cuberg CEO and Founder, comments, “The aviation industry is pursuing cleaner forms of energy and propulsion, but aircraft manufacturers are held back by the weight and immaturity of aviation-certifiable lithium-ion battery systems. With this new program, we will build certifiable battery systems enabling greatly enhanced aircraft performance and deliver a trusted end-to-end solution backed by one of the world’s preeminent battery manufacturers.” Cuberg technology uses a lithium metal anode and proprietary liquid electrolyte to simultaneously solve the interlocking challenges of battery performance and manufacturability. While incumbent battery technologies, such as lithium-ion, can be too heavy and low-performing for use in aircraft, Cuberg’s battery cells are lightweight and high-performance. The technology is also compatible with industry standard manufacturing methods, enabling scalability, reliability and traceability across the value chain. SOURCE: Northvolt 