Ford Pro Delivers Smarter, Fully Connected, All-Electric E Transit Courier Ford Pro has revealed the E-Transit Courier, a ground-up new all-electric commercial vehicle bringing enhanced connectivity and productivity for compact van customers. Extending Ford Pro’s line-up of innovative electrified and connected cargo vans, the all-new E‑Transit Courier is fully integrated with Ford Pro’s platform of software and connected services to further drive efficient operation including end-to-end charging solutions and management tools from Ford Pro Software. To further boost productivity, E-Transit Courier has been completely redesigned around a larger, more flexible cargo area that delivers 26 per cent more load volume than the outgoing model, plus enhanced capability including increased payload and space for two Euro pallets. Part of Ford’s $50 billion+ global push to lead the EV revolution, the E-Transit Courier is the next step as the company electrifies its iconic Transit family of commercial vehicles, joining the larger E-Transit and E-Transit Custom models in the Ford Pro portfolio. “E-Transit Courier moves its segment up a level with uncompromised EV performance, higher load capacity and fully connected support including end-to-end charging solutions, Ford Pro E‑Telematics and uptime-boosting FORDLiive,” said Hans Schep, general manager, Ford Pro, Europe. “Ford Pro’s long-standing market leadership gives us unrivalled insight into customers’ needs and means we can help them get big productivity from their compact vans with more connectivity and capability than ever before.” All-new E-Transit Courier will make its public debut at the Commercial Vehicle Show in Birmingham, UK, from April 18-20, and is scheduled to enter production later in 2024. Customers will be able to order petrol- and diesel-engine Transit Courier models from summer 2023 for delivery before the end of the year. E-Transit Courier’s all-electric powertrain has been engineered to deliver an uncompromised driving experience for customers, including a powerful 100kW (136PS) motor and one-pedal driving capability. Full performance and range details will be confirmed closer to launch. Ford Pro Charging offers an end-to-end solution for home, depot and public charging, including hardware installation and management software that helps to optimise the charging process. Simplified billing and administration via Ford Pro Charging software also supports businesses whose drivers take their work vehicle home, as well as streamlining public charging. Ford Pro expects E-Transit Courier to be popular with customers who charge at home; Ford Pro Charging is targeting an 11 kW AC overnight home charge in 5.7 hours, and charging can be scheduled to take advantage of cheaper overnight energy using the in-vehicle touchscreen or depot charging software. To support efficient public charging, the vehicle offers DC fast charge capability up to 100kW. Ford expects the system to add 54 miles of range in 10 minutes, and charge from 10-80 per cent in less than 35 minutes. E-Transit Courier also comes with a year of complimentary access to the BlueOval Charge Network, which is set to include 500,000 public chargers by 2024. Customers with five or more vehicles can also benefit from one year of complimentary access to the tailored features of Ford Pro E-Telematics. The system uses live data to help maximise productivity, as well as delivering features to support effective and intuitive use of Ford Pro Charging. These include current charging status, vehicle-specific state of charge, and remaining range with customisable low range alert thresholds. Plug and Charge enables E-Transit Courier owners to simply plug in and walk away when using compatible BlueOval Charge Network chargers. Charging begins automatically, and a bill and charge summary are sent to the owner after unplugging. To go further between charges, cloud-powered Intelligent Range aggregates data to deliver more accurate range figures. E-Transit Courier’s all-new body design delivers increased load capacity in all dimensions. Width between the rear wheelarches is 1,220mm, enabling the compact van to carry two Euro pallets for the first time. Total cargo volume is now 2.9 m3, 26 per cent more than the outgoing model. This can be further increased using the new load-through bulkhead feature, which enables customers to carry items such as planks or pipe over 2,600mm long. Maximum payload for the all-electric model is 700kg, with a maximum towing weight of 750kg. E-Transit Courier helps businesses to stand out, with a bold, distinctive exterior design and a spacious, practical interior designed around compact van users’ needs. The all-new model offers a very comprehensive standard equipment specification including unique cabin features with “squircle” steering wheel design to improve leg room and visibility for the driver, as well as a column-mounted gear shifter, push-button ignition and an electronic handbrake to deliver increased configurable storage space. The “digiboard” instrument panel contains a 12-inch digital cluster and 12-inch centre touchscreen with Ford’s latest SYNC 4 system. Subscription-based Connected Navigation can boost productivity and reduce driver workload with updates on traffic, parking, charging and local hazards. Wireless Android Auto and Apple CarPlay compatibility is standard. An innovative, class-unique Office Pack includes a foldaway flat work surface and lighting to make using a laptop, filling in paperwork or taking a break in the cab easier and more comfortable. Driver and cargo safety are paramount concerns for van operators and Ford Pro. E-Transit Courier sets a new benchmark in the segment with its comprehensive suite of advanced driver assistance systems as standard. An optional further bundle includes Adaptive Cruise Control with Lane Centring and Stop & Go, Blind Spot Information System with Cross Traffic Alert, Intersection Assist and Reverse Brake Assist for more peace of mind in urban driving. Every E-Transit Courier features a built-in modem as standard, enabling always-on connectivity with the Ford Pro ecosystem and wireless software updates that can evolve the vehicle’s capability over time without requiring a dealer visit. After activating the built-in modem, operators can benefit from enhanced vehicle security alerts for collisions and break-ins via Ford Pro Software. With Fleet Start Inhibit, fleet managers can remotely enable and disable E-Transit Courier to help prevent theft or unauthorised use outside of work hours. To improve security without the time and cost of aftermarket solutions, Ford Pro partnered with vehicle security experts TVL to offer factory-fit lock packs for E-Transit Courier. The packs include secondary hook locks to mitigate against “peel and steal” attacks, as well as auto-locking for the sliding side door to reduce driver workload and shave seconds off each delivery. Ford Pro Service expects E-Transit Courier’s non-scheduled maintenance costs to be at least 35 per cent lower than on diesel-powered models. The all-new van is backed by the same comprehensive Ford Pro Service network – including an expanding Mobile Service capability, the unique FORDLiive connected uptime system and Europe’s largest dedicated commercial vehicle dealer network – as the rest of the Transit family. The all-new Transit Courier is first available in 2023 with a range of fuel-efficient petrol and diesel engines. The line-up features a choice of attractive series including the high-specification Limited and Active models. All models will be built in Craiova, Romania, by Ford Otosan, the manufacturer of the best-selling Transit Custom and segment-leading E-Transit. Ford Otosan is Europe’s largest producer of commercial vehicles, with annual production set to exceed 900,000 units by 2025. SOURCE: Ford Pro 