EVFLY Partners with the Leader in eVTOL Flight Simulators F.A.S.T.-Group EVFLY, today announced the signature of a LoI with the F.A.S.T. group, based in Germany. The objective of this partnership is to work jointly on the AAM project and to provide the best equipment in terms of flight simulators and the best solutions for EVFLY pilot training and EVFLY customers. F.A.S.T-Group’s member of the executive board Till Borngräber commented; “I am very pleased to name EVFLY as one of F.A.S.T.-Groups core partners in the eVTOL industry. EVFLY promises to lead the industry as one of the first eVTOL commercial operators and they share our aim for the highest degree of safety and efficiency. We are proud to help them achieve this goal with our Flight Simulation Training Devices and Pilot Training Concepts. As early birds in this industry, our joint venture will surely lay the foundation for many safe and promising eVTOL flights.” By using the all-new Mixed-Reality technology, pilot training will be improved in terms of safety, efficiency, and time and this is exactly what EVFLY is looking for. EVFLY’s founder and CEO, Yannick Erbs said of the partnership; “By choosing to partner with F.A.S.T.-Group, we know that we are opting for the best in terms of flight simulators and training solutions, as their main objective is to further improve the efficiency and quality of training by providing us with the best customized solutions.” The eVTOL Flight Simulator of F.A.S.T.-Group is fitted with a motion platform to increase realism. Due to its compact design, it is not only easy to ship but also easy to install and maintain. Roll-off/Roll-on capabilities ensure the interchangeability of a cockpit, increasing flexibility. EVFLY specializes in fleet management and operations for the new generation of eVTOL aircraft.  The company is at the forefront of developing services in the field of Advance Air Mobility (AAM). This partnership between EVFLY and F.A.S.T.-Group is undoubtedly a major step forward for the future of the eVTOL industry. SOURCE: EVFLY 