Osprey Charging Reveals New EV Charger Artwork to Celebrates Autism Acceptance Week To celebrate Autism Acceptance Week (Monday 27th March to Sunday 2nd April) Osprey Charging, one of the UK’s leading networks of rapid electric vehicle (EV) charging points, today announces that it will be displaying eye-catching, unique artwork created by autistic artist Rebecca Ellis, across its EV chargers. Rebecca (31) is a researcher, artist, science communicator, and advocate for the neurodivergent community. Osprey has awarded her £1000 for her artwork The Acceptance Journey which is being printed into high quality wraps and exhibited on 21 of its chargers at the following rapid charging locations: Osprey’s chargers have previously hosted artwork in celebration of Pride (July), Black History Month (October), UK Disability History Month (November) and International Day of People with Disabilities (December). It is the only UK charge point network using its charger real estate to display artwork that draws attention to and celebrates these important themes. Ian Johnston, CEO of Osprey Charging said “At Osprey we are building an EV charging network that is open to all, and it’s therefore critical for us to show our support for communities who are often underrepresented. By converting our EV chargers into galleries for artwork we are honouring themes that have been suggested by our staff and customers, whilst bringing attention to some important causes and organisations. I want to thank Rebecca for supporting us with this campaign. Her artwork will inspire drivers and others at our charging locations to consider and make choices that respect people with autism as well as all disabilities.” Rebecca Ellis said “I’m hugely flattered that Osprey has chosen to display my artwork on their chargers. The Acceptance Journey represents the steps we are taking to reach autism acceptance and awareness. The books represent learning with key messages and themes written on their spines. I wanted the piece to be colourful and positive as we work together as a community to reduce stigma, embrace neurodiversity and increase understanding. Thanks to Osprey for giving me a platform to display my art whilst creating such a positive message. The charger artwork project shows allyship in supporting the autistic, neurodivergent and wider disabled communities with these fantastic campaigns.” SOURCE: Osprey Charging 