Infineon Technologies Joins Forces with Infinitum, Creator of the Sustainable Air Core Motor Drive At APEC 2023, Infineon Technologies announced the company is joining forces with Infinitum, creator of the sustainable, breakthrough air core motor. In this technology collaboration, Infineon will provide silicon carbide (SiC) CoolSiC™ MOSFETs and other key semiconductor components that greatly contribute to the Infinitum motor system’s precise motor control, optimal power and energy savings. The Infinitum Aircore EC motor for commercial and industrial applications will be showcased at Infineon’s booth #932 at APEC 2023 in Orlando, Florida, 19 to 23 March. The motor uses Infinitum’s patented air-core motor design, which replaces heavy iron used in traditional motors with a lightweight, printed circuit board (PCB). The company’s award-winning motors are 50 percent smaller and lighter, ten percent more efficient and use 66 percent less copper than traditional motors. “Infineon is a leading provider of silicon carbide chips and embedded technologies that can greatly contribute to Infinitum motor system’s value-added features from an energy, carbon footprint and performance standpoint,” said Rick Tewell, President of Infinitum. “We are excited to team with Infineon on our continued collaboration. The company helps us bring innovative new breakthroughs to our customers in the industrial sector.” “Infineon and Infinitum are two companies with the same mission to drive decarbonization, with greater efficiency in motor control and less waste in hardware for industrial applications,” said Michael Williams, Director of Product Marketing, Industrial Power Control Division, Infineon Technologies. “We are excited to team with Infinitum, a company that delivers award-winning motor control systems with hardware motor design that has been taken to a whole new level. With our proven SiC and semiconductor technologies, we are helping Infinitum deliver more precise motor control for better power and energy savings.” As an industry leader in SiC chips, Infineon provides power switching in this arena of voltages at 650 V and above for a wide range of applications that operate in harsh environments. The company has more than two decades of SiC experience. Infineon’s CoolSiC semiconductors also offer added value to customers like Infinitum by providing better efficiency, size and cost compared to silicon-based solutions. Infineon will also be showcasing its broad product portfolio of advanced silicon and wide bandgap materials at booth #932 at APEC 2023 in Orlando, Florida, 19 to 23 March. More information is available at www.infineon.com/apec. More information about Infineon’s contribution to energy efficiency: www.infineon.com/green-energy SOURCE: Infineon 