ZF Introduces Advanced Brake-by-Wire Solutions for the Global Construction Industry ZF’s Industrial Division will introduce its new brake-by-wire solutions at CONEXPO/CONAGG 2023, March 14-18 in Las Vegas. A global leader in hydraulic and electrohydraulic braking systems, ZF supports customers in the heavy duty, off-highway, construction, mining, and agriculture sectors with safe and efficient brake technology. The company’s newest brake-by-wire solution is an important step change, as it provides vehicle manufacturers the ability to control deceleration via an electronic signal that adjusts brake pressure when needed, removing the need for hydraulic lines in the cab and evolving towards remote and autonomous operation. “As the off-highway market continues its transition from mechanical to intelligent braking technology, our new brake-by-wire system offers a universal solution that is easily scalable,” said Tom Chambers, Head of Off-Highway Braking, ZF Industrial Division. “Safety and vehicle architecture are key drivers for our customers when designing their brake systems, and this new technology can help them achieve those goals.” The system is comprised of three components: an electronic pedal, electrohydraulic brake valve and a universal controller. Together, the system offers vehicle manufacturers ease of installation, electrohydraulic brake valves for precision brake control and adaptable pedal response/brake feel that can be customized to fit a vehicle’s brand identity. It also provides key operator benefits including reduced cabin noise, and passenger car-like comfort for brake feel. “ZF’s experience in motion control technology for passenger cars and commercial vehicles is enabling us to shape the future of electrification for these important off-highway market sectors,” said Piergiorgio Di Francesco, head of ZF’s Off-Highway business unit for North America. “Our intelligent braking portfolio not only provides turnkey solutions for customers in this sector today but also supports their shift to electric and autonomous applications in the future.” Visit ZF in South Hall 4, Booth #584214. The company will also host a technology forum on Wednesday, March 15, 11 a.m. at the booth where attendees can learn more about their e-mobility solutions for the future of the construction industry. SOURCE: ZF 