Dana Collaborates with Wacker Neuson Group on e-Propulsion Systems Dana, today announced that it has been selected by the Wacker Neuson Group – a leading manufacturer of construction equipment – to provide the e-Propulsion system for its compact construction vehicle line-up in Europe, beginning with the Kramer electric wheel loader 5065e as well as the electric telehandler models from Wacker Neuson and Kramer. The multi-year program is expected to begin production later this year and will feature a complete electrodynamic system from Dana, including: “The demand for electrified compact construction equipment continues to rise and Wacker Neuson and Dana understand the importance of taking a complete system approach to e-Propulsion systems – maximizing the efficiency, durability, and performance of each specific vehicle application,” said Jeroen Decleer, senior vice president of Dana Off-Highway Drive and Motion Systems. “We are excited about the opportunity to continue our more than 20-year collaboration with the Wacker Neuson Group as we work together to bring this complete e-Propulsion system to the market, helping to meet the rising demand for sustainable solutions.” “We are committed to expanding our pioneering role in the development of emission-free equipment for construction as well as agricultural applications. We want to be the technology leader in performance, efficiency, and safety and are pleased to have Dana as a strong partner to achieve this goal,” explained Thomas Tilly, managing director, Weidemann GmbH and Kramer-Werke GmbH, both brands of the Wacker Neuson Group. Dana’s eSG101 e-Transmission is specifically designed to support the demanding requirements of construction equipment. It leverages field-proven technologies, including a patented solution for unrivaled efficiency, a precision-engineered interface for connecting high-performance motors to help deliver an improved total cost of ownership, and a solution optimized for noise, vibration, and harshness. The vehicle’s propulsion and working functions will leverage Dana’s SRIPM motor technology which maximizes the ratio between performance and cost, providing a superior performance in a fully integrated electric system. The motors are each complemented by a low-voltage, power-dense AC-X1 inverter with unsurpassed dynamic performance across a range of speeds. The complete system is controlled by a fully configurable APC 300 series controller that meets the strictest safety regulations for electric vehicles and manages the power distribution of traction and working functions, brakes, heating, and cooling of the cabin, as well as diagnostics and intelligence control strategies to monitor vehicle performance. SOURCE: Dana 