Stellantis Plant in Tychy Starts Production of all-new Jeep® Avenger On January 31st , after having been awarded European Car of the Year 2023, the start of regular production of the all-new Jeep@ Avenger at the Stellantis plant in Tychy has kicked off. “The all-new Jeep Avenger is the first Jeep SUV to be produced in Poland, and a great reason for our entire team to be proud. We are starting 2023 with the launch of production of a vehicle that has already earned recognition of customers and industry experts,” said Tomasz Gębka, Stellantis Plant Manager in Tychy plant.   “We appreciate the great interest in this unique Jeep brand model, which offers a lot of  state-of-the-art technological features. For our part, our Tychy team will add additional value to it – the highest level of quality.” The compact Jeep Avenger spearheads the introduction of a portfolio of capable, fully electric vehicles right sized for Europe, and is a key component in a global electrification strategy as the brand moves towards becoming the world leader in zero-emission SUVs. Designed and built as a Jeep vehicle from day one, the Avenger packs the Jeep DNA into a compact SUV with a unique combination of capability, style, functionality, and technology to satisfy the needs of ever-connected customers. Made in and for Europe, Jeep Avenger provides European customers with standard Selec-Terrain® and Hill Descent Control which, together with its outstanding approach and departure angles and the vehicle’s ground clearance, bring impressive levels of capability into the segment. In terms of electrification, the Jeep Avenger is equipped with a new generation 400 Volt electric propulsion system which combines a new 156-hp electric motor with 260 Nm of torque and a new 54 kWh battery pack. The Jeep Avenger, revealed at the 2022 Paris Motor Show, has already been acclaimed by both customers and industry experts. This is confirmed by the sales results in Europe: where more than 10.000 units have been sold since the opening of orders for the 1st Edition on Dec 1, 2022 and then the full lineup on Jan 11th, 2023. This remarkable achievement underscores the enormous potential of the all-electric Jeep Avenger. The all-new Jeep SUV is available with promotional financing and at a competitive price thanks to government incentives. The first deliveries are expected in the second quarter of this year. * The general terms and conditions are available at Jeep’s local website. SOURCE: Stellantis 