Mullen Announces Pilot Program for Class 1 EV Cargo Vans with Menzies and Loop Mullen, announces a pilot program for Class 1 EV cargo vans with Menzies Aviation and Loop at Los Angeles International Airport (“LAX”). Menzies operates in 250-plus airports in 58 countries, providing ground, air cargo, and fuel services to commercial airports and airlines. Menzies Aviation, the world’s largest aviation services company, is piloting Mullen Automotive electric vans and Loop Global charging infrastructure across its operations at LAX as it looks for innovative solutions to support its ambitious goal of becoming carbon neutral by 2033. Menzies has a global fleet of 27,000 ground service equipment, including over 8,000 vehicles, at 250-plus airports worldwide and is committed to switching to electric wherever possible to reduce emissions in line with its sustainability strategy. Mullen and Menzies have agreed to a 60-day pilot program that will evaluate the Class 1 electric vehicle (EV) cargo vans in several use cases across Menzies’ LAX operations, such as transporting cabin cleaning teams to aircraft. Loop will provide EV charging infrastructure and fleet operations software to service the Mullen electric vans through its electric vehicle fleet as-a-service (EVFaaS) program. With the Loop cloud-based Charger Management System (CMS), Menzies will be able to charge Mullen’s electric vehicles between each shift to keep them powered for daily operations across LAX. John Redmond, executive vice president Americas, Menzies Aviation, said: “Collaborating with suppliers, airports and our airline customers is absolutely vital for Menzies to achieve its sustainability goals. We have committed to switching to electric vehicles wherever possible to reduce our carbon emissions; however, charging infrastructure can be a barrier, so it’s great to be working with both Mullen and Loop to pilot a solution at LAX. Early feedback is positive, and I’m looking forward to seeing the results from this collaboration.” Dustin Cavanaugh, CEO of Loop Global, Inc., said: “The team at Loop is honored to have this opportunity to deliver such a pioneering venture in collaboration with Mullen and Menzies. We hope this pilot at LAX is just a stepping stone in ushering in a new era of fleet electrification at airports throughout the world.” David Michery, CEO and chairman of Mullen Automotive, said: “Menzies is a well-respected leader in the aviation industry. Our commercial EVs are a natural fit for airport service and logistics operations. Working together with Menzies and Loop providing a full EV ecosystem solution is a great opportunity for Mullen.” SOURCE: Mullen 