Lilium Partners GKN Aerospace for Lilium Jet’s Electrical Wiring Interconnection System Lilium and GKN Aerospace, have signed an agreement to work together to design and build an integrated and certifiable EWIS solution. From its facility in the Netherlands, GKN Aerospace will build the EWIS hardware sets and support Lilium with on-site installation into the Lilium Jet at Lilium’s final assembly line at Oberpfaffenhofen, Germany. GKN Aerospace has a significant track record in the design and build of certifiable EWIS solutions within the aerospace industry. The scope of the collaboration covers the integrated design of the low voltage and high voltage electrical interconnections of the Lilium Jet. This includes: For Lilium, this agreement represents an important step towards final assembly of the conforming aircraft due to begin later this year. Lilium already has agreements in place for aerostructures, avionics, battery cells, energy management systems, e-motors, propulsion system, aircraft interior and landing gear, among others. For GKN Aerospace, the partnership aligns perfectly with the company’s mission to be the most trusted and sustainable partner in the sky. GKN Aerospace is already making significant investments in sustainable aviation, which includes full electric, hybrid-electric, and hydrogen-powered aircraft technology. The Lilium Jet is a valuable addition to GKN Aerospace’s sustainable aircraft portfolio. Yves Yemsi, Chief Operating Officer at Lilium, said: “We’re proud to have brought another outstanding aerospace player onto the Lilium Jet team. GKN Aerospace has enormous experience developing certifiable EWIS systems and impressed us with their dedicated offering for the Lilium Jet. We are looking forward to driving ahead on our program with GKN Aerospace at our side.” John Pritchard, President Business line Civil Airframe at GKN Aerospace commented: “We are delighted to partner with Lilium; this collaboration provides a great opportunity to leverage and build on the capabilities each company brings. Companies like Lilium will be delivering the solutions that will enable passengers to travel sustainably and help deliver net zero carbon by 2050. We’re proud to be on board and helping that reality come to life with our advanced technology.” SOURCE: Lilium 