Corvette E-Ray Launched with Carbon Revolution’s Carbon Fiber Wheels Carbon Revolution, a Tier 1 OEM supplier and a leading global manufacturer of lightweight advanced technology carbon fiber wheels, announced today that Carbon Revolution carbon fiber wheels will be available on the 2024 Chevrolet Corvette E-Ray, the second C8 Corvette model to feature the company’s lightweight wheel technology. The E-Ray, unveiled today by General Motors, will be the first Corvette to utilize electric power in addition to its V8 engine, and the first all-wheel drive Corvette. Five-spoke Carbon Revolution carbon fiber wheels, manufactured at the company’s Waurn Ponds facility, will be available as an option on the 2024 Corvette C8 E-Ray. Carbon Revolution already supplies carbon fiber wheels for the Corvette C8 Z06, which started production in mid-2022. This additional vehicle variant forms part of Carbon Revolution’s existing five-spoke Corvette wheel program. The front wheel measures 20” x 10” while the 21” x 13” rear is world’s widest carbon fiber wheel. Corvette Executive Chief Engineer, Tadge Juechter, said the E-Ray, the first electrified, all-wheel-drive Corvette, expands the promise of what Corvette can deliver. “Corvettes must provide an exhilarating driving experience on backroads and tracks, and E-Ray nails it. The electrification technology enhances the feeling of control in all conditions, adding an unexpected degree of composure,” Juechter said. Carbon Revolution CEO, Jake Dingle said the company’s lightweight wheel technology was synonymous with the Corvette E-Ray’s philosophy of maximizing efficiency and performance. “The world is shifting to electrification and new mobility, and Carbon Revolution wheels are an ideal solution for carmakers looking to improve efficiency and performance of electric vehicles,” Dingle said. “The E-Ray will transform the C8 Corvette’s efficiency by offering hybrid power. The addition of Carbon Revolution wheels enhances the E-Ray’s performance and efficiency through a significant reduction in unsprung, rotational mass.” The 2024 Corvette E-Ray will go on sale in North America in mid-2023. Carbon Revolution and Twin Ridge Capital Acquisition recently announced that they have entered into a definitive agreement for a business combination agreement and accompanying scheme implementation deed that is expected to result in Carbon Revolution becoming publicly listed in the U.S. Completion of the transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including the approval of the TRCA shareholders and the Carbon Revolution shareholders. The transaction is expected to be completed in the first half of 2023. Image Source: General Motors 