Mullen Automotive’s I-GO™ Arrives in Europe Mullen has announced that the I-GO Commercial Urban Delivery EV has arrived in Europe with sample vehicles now in route to Newgate Motor Group in Ireland with expected delivery in early January 2023. The sample vehicles were initially expected to arrive at Newgate on December 20, 2022, but delivery was delayed due to COVID related shutdown issues in China. The I-GO is Mullen’s recently announced urban commercial delivery vehicle, designed to bridge the gap between the growing demand for quick deliveries and space constraints in dense cities throughout Europe. The Mullen I-GO is EU standard homologated, certified, and ready for sale in initial markets of the U.K., Germany, Spain, France and Ireland, with the first vehicles going to Newgate Motor Group based in Naven, Ireland. “Over the last month, we’ve received a significant uptick in interest and inquiries on the I-GO EV”, said Jim Ring, general manager for Newgate Motor Group. We are definitely excited to receive the initial sample vehicles and look forward to showcasing them for our customers firsthand.” “The initial I-GO samples have arrived in Europe and are now on their way to Newgate in Ireland, said David Michery”, CEO and chairman of Mullen Automotive.   “We are excited for sales and service to get up and running with Newgate. Once established, we will look further into other opportunities for the European Market. The I-GO is a great alternative vehicle for delivery in dense metro European cities. The small size is perfect for maneuverability on tight euro streets and the zero emissions and lower cost of ownership is a great combination for our potential commercial customers.” In November 2022, Mullen Automotive entered into an agreement to appoint Newgate Motor Group, one of Ireland’s most recognized dealership groups, as the marketing, sales, distribution and servicing agent for the Mullen I-GO in Ireland and the United Kingdom. Newgate Motor Group has over 40 years of experience in the motor industry and has built an excellent reputation during that time. They are well respected in the auto industry and represent several brands, including Renault/Dacia, Kia and Mercedes-Benz. In addition to being a key retail group in Ireland, they also have substantial relationships in the vehicle distribution business throughout the United Kingdom and various parts of Europe. Newgate Motor Group also represents XBUS and Evetta electric vehicles from the German-based company Electric Brands. SOURCE: Mullen Automotive, Inc. 