EKA Mobility’s Next-Gen Commercial EVs to Feature AAM’s e-Beam Axle American Axle & Manufacturing (AAM) and EKA Mobility, have announced a collaboration whereby AAM will supply EKA Mobility’s first ever e-Beam axle for the company’s 2.5T battery electric commercial vehicle. EKA Mobility is a subsidiary of Pinnacle Industries Limited, India’s largest integrated commercial vehicle seating, interiors and specialty vehicles company. The collaboration will enhance EKA’s battery-electric commercial vehicle portfolio through the use of AAM’s industry-leading components and technologies. The partnership will accelerate development of efficient, sustainable, reliable and profitable electric light commercial vehicles globally, and will extend EKA’s soon-to-be-launched 2.5T small commercial vehicle. “We are delighted to collaborate with AAM as one of our key partners in bringing our new energy commercial electric vehicles to market,” said Dr. Sudhir Mehta, Chairman, EKA & Pinnacle Industries Limited. “Together with AAM’s extensive knowledge, presence and leadership in the global automotive markets, we look forward to bringing zero-emission mobility solutions globally.” “AAM continues to grow our electric propulsion business with strategic opportunities in new markets with new customers like EKA,” said David C. Dauch, AAM Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. “AAM’s goal is to be a key OEM partner in electric propulsion from components to full systems. This collaboration is another example of how AAM is helping its global customers transition to an electric future.” Mehta said that EKA is committed to choosing the most advanced technologies in order to extend product life, making vehicles even more sustainable and valuable. “AAM is producing some of the best technology in electric mobility, and this partnership is a step toward our shared vision of cleaner, sustainable and efficient mobility,” Mehta said. EKA Mobility recently launched its 9-meter electric bus that provides a solid platform for sustainable and efficient public transport in cities around the world, along with reliable and profitable operations for customers. The product, completely designed and manufactured in India, received the Central Motor Vehicle Rules (CMVR) certification from ARAI. The first vehicles will be on roads soon. The company also plans to launch a range of light commercial vehicles that will offer a 50-percent reduction in the total cost of ownership and will be a game-changer in the last-mile delivery vehicle segment. To learn more about AAM’s e-Beam axles and AAM’s full electric drive technology portfolio, visit AAM.com/Future. 