Schaeffler Group Inaugurates Software Technology Center in India to Strengthen e-Mobility Offering Worldwide Schaeffler, leading global supplier to the automotive and industrial sectors, is expanding its software and electronics expertise. Today, the company inaugurated a new center of competence in software and electronics development in Pune, India. Electronics and software for the company’s automotive components and systems especially for e-mobility and chassis applications will be developed here in the future as a strategically important part of a powerful international R&D network. Schaeffler will be investing 10 million euros in its new location. The newly formed entity Schaeffler Technology Solutions India Private Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Schaeffler Group and will employ 200 engineers by end of 2022. As part of Schaeffler’s E-Mobility business division the new entity will closely cooperate with the headquarter in Bühl, Germany. Schaeffler plans to ramp up the development team in India within the next years, making the country a main location and competence center for software and electronics development. Uwe Wagner, Chief Technology Officer at Schaeffler AG, said at the inauguration: “Strengthening competencies in mechatronics, electronics, and software plays a decisive role in Schaeffler’s company strategy Roadmap 2025. In this way, we will actively shape the transformation toward sustainable and electrified mobility. As part of the Schaeffler global R&D network, the newly established entity Schaeffler Technology Solutions India Private Limited in Pune will here play a key role. Together, we are very well equipped to continue our successful journey to pioneer motion.” “Electrified powertrains have been part of Schaeffler’s core business since 2018 and we have become a leading systems supplier in electromobility in recent years. To further strengthen and expand this position, we will rely on a global R&D network for software and electronics development in the future. Our newly formed entity Schaeffler Technology Solutions India Private Limited in Pune will become a main location in this network,” said Dr. Jochen Schröder, Head of the E-Mobility business division of Schaeffler. Schaeffler already offers a very broad range of solutions for electric drives and is aiming for major growth in this area. The company develops everything from individual electromobility components to highly complex systems such as its 4in1 electric axle that integrates electric motor, power electronics, transmission, and thermal management into one comprehensive system. This strategy of developing both individual components and complete systems for electric powertrains is paying off for Schaeffler – both technically and commercially. During the first nine months in 2022, the e-mobility business at Schaeffler totaled an order intake of 4.7 billion euros relating to the E-Mobility business division. The engineers at the new technology center in Pune will be contributing to this business in the areas of software development, electronics, mechatronics, and validation which are key to seamlessly blend electrical and mechanical components for overall system reliability and efficiency. Yogesh Patwardhan, Director, Schaeffler Technology Solutions India Private Limited, said, „In the last few years, we have witnessed fast paced change in technology scape driven by consumer preferences. Schaeffler group is committed to enable the transition towards sustainable mobility by harmonizing our manufacturing competency with digitalization, electric and electronics competencies. As a result, we leverage local strengths that the world has to offer, and India has long established itself with its vast engineering talent availability. Schaeffler has a strong base in India already and this center was a natural extension of our commitment to expand our local footprint.“ As a leading global supplier to the automotive and industrial sectors, Schaeffler is an attractive employer, especially in the areas of mechatronics, electronics, and software. Therefore, the company plans to leverage in India’s rich engineering talent pool in the software and electronics fields. At Schaeffler, employees can contribute to shape the future of mobility, and topics like digitalization and sustainability are at the heart of Schaeffler’s strategy. Furthermore, Schaeffler offers various career paths for individual development as well as qualification measures. Since an optimal working environment is crucial, Schaeffler has been creating new offices with a state-of-the-art software and electronics laboratory for current and future employees in Pune, totaling a size of nearly 5,000 square meters. These offer professionals’ modern workplaces with communication zones, meeting places for spontaneous discussions, and special areas where they can work in a concentrated and focused manner. Schaeffler develops and manufactures a diverse mix of efficient and sustainable drive solutions for a wide range of applications – everything from bicycles to 40-ton trucks. The activities in this area include semi- and fully electrified powertrains, fuel cell systems, and the development of efficient internal combustion engines. Schaeffler is shaping the mobility transition not just with CO2-efficient powertrains but also with new chassis applications, including technologies that enable highly automated driving. The new development center in India will contribute to multiple projects focusing on a range of complex functional safety topics from quality management to ASIL D applications and cybersecurity, leveraging AUTOSAR platform and architecture. 