Tenneco to Supply Intelligent Suspension, Anti-Vibration Performance Materials Solutions For Rivian EVs Tenneco has been selected to provide intelligent suspension and anti-vibration performance materials solutions for U.S.-based electric-vehicle manufacturer Rivian Automotive. Tenneco’s CVSA2/Kinetic® H2 semi-active suspension technology part of the Monroe® Intelligent Suspension product portfolio and NVH performance materials Clevite® elastomers, will be featured in the all-electric Rivian R1T five-passenger pickup and R1S seven-passenger sport utility vehicle. “Our global engineering teams have worked closely with Rivian and other vehicle manufacturers to achieve new ride performance and NVH reduction targets for battery-electric and hybrid vehicles. We are very pleased that CVSA2/Kinetic® technology has been chosen,” said Henrik Johansson, Vice President and General Manager Advanced Suspension Technologies. “We are very pleased that Clevite Elastomers products will contribute to the success of Rivian’s first two models added Kathleen Pacheco, Vice President and General Manager, NVH Performance Materials.” One of several electronic suspension technologies available through Tenneco’s Monroe® Intelligent Suspension portfolio, the CVSA2/Kinetic® H2 solution will be integrated with Rivian’s flexible “skateboard” chassis, which also houses the vehicle’s quad-motors, intelligent battery management system and other components. Originally developed for sport and hypercar models but now also available for performance SUV and light truck platforms, the CVSA2/Kinetic® H2 technology provides continuously controlled damping along with advanced, hydraulic roll control. The suspension’s Kinetic® roll control system offers the driver excellent handling agility and comfort and delivers exceptional off-road performance. By eliminating the need for conventional sway bars, the technology helps reduce vehicle weight and decouples single wheel disturbances providing better contact to the road. Additionally, as compared to other damping and roll control systems, the Kinetic® interlinkage concept consumes very little energy, thereby helping to extend battery vehicle range. R1T and R1S models also will be equipped with Tenneco ‘s Clevite® Elastomers front and rear suspension bushings, top mounts and other parts, contributing to the vehicles’ smooth, quiet, comfortable ride dynamics. Clevite Elastomers products are engineered to provide premium, best-in-class performance in a full range of vehicle platforms and operating environments. By dramatically reducing noise, vibration and harshness (NVH), these innovative elastomeric formulations and components help OEMs provide clearly differentiated ride quality and cabin comfort. 