ROHM, Mazda, and Imasen to Develop Inverters for e-Axle ROHM Semiconductor has announced they have signed a joint development agreement with Mazda and Imasen for inverters and SiC power modules to be used in the electric drive units of electric vehicles, including e-Axle. As the ‘heart of the EV’, e-Axle integrates a motor, reduction gearbox, and inverter into a single unit that plays a large part in determining the driving performance and power conversion efficiency of electric vehicles. SiC MOSFETs in particular are expected to improve efficiency even further. ROHM will carry out joint inverter development for e-Axle by participating in a ‘cooperative framework for the electric drive units development and production’ with companies such as Imasen and led by Mazda. At the same time, ROHM will contribute to the creation industry-leading compact, high efficiency electrical units by developing and supplying advanced SiC power modules that provide improved performance. Through this collaboration, ROHM will develop even more competitive SiC MOSFETs and modules by working backwards from the finished vehicle to understand the performance and optimal drive method required of power semiconductors. Besides creating new value through mutual understanding between car and device manufacturers, the three companies also support technical innovation in the automotive field and contribute to a sustainable society by leveraging extensive knowledge, technologies, and products garnered on a global basis. We are pleased to collaborate on the development and production of e-Axle with ROHM, who hopes to create a sustainable mobility society through outstanding semiconductor technologies and advanced system solution development capabilities, to co-create a new value chain that directly links semiconductor devices and vehicles in both directions as electrification brings us closer to carbon neutrality. By partnering with like-minded companies, Mazda is committed to injecting ‘driving pleasure’ into every product – including electric vehicles. We are extremely pleased to work together on the development and production of e-Axle with Mazda, who is committed to providing ‘driving pleasure’ that expresses the inherent appeal of cars. Through this partnership, we hope that by reflecting the true demands and requests in our products we can develop automotive systems that contribute to decarbonization while allowing us to gain a deeper understanding of Mazda’s goal of creating cars that are sustainable with the earth and society. As the role of semiconductors in the automotive market continues to grow, ROHM will strive to manufacture high quality products and contribute to the creation of a sustainable mobility society by offering a wide range of solutions. 