ACC & ProLogium Sign MOU to Cooperate in the Development of EV Solid-State Battery Automotive Cells Company (ACC) and ProLogium Technology have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) to cooperate in the development of EV solid-state battery. Under the MOU, ACC and ProLogium will focus their joint efforts on the collaboration for solid-state EV battery development. “ProLogium Inside” EV battery solutions will be developed for customers based on ProLogium’s leading-edge solid-state battery technology and subsequent supply chain and/or industrial agreement concluded by both parties. “We are very pleased to partner with ACC and further build on our pioneering role in enabling the fast transition to electric driving,” said Vincent Yang, founder and Chief Executive Officer of ProLogium Technology. “We are a major innovator in battery technology with already proven manufacturing capabilities, and we aim to develop a large-scale overseas manufacturing footprint and cross-culture operational capability as a driver for a more sustainable world with our high-performance, safe and affordable technologies.” “ACC’s purpose is to develop and produce battery cells and modules for electric vehicles with a focus on safety, performance, and competitiveness, while ensuring the highest level of quality and the lowest carbon footprint. As one of our key partners, ProLogium will help us to deliver EV products with advanced battery technology and establish an adequate supply chain to enable a more enjoyable and safer driving experience.” said Yann Vincent, Chief Executive Officer of ACC. Earlier this year, ACC confirmed the construction of its first gigafactory in Billy-Berclau (Hauts-de-France) with the aim of achieving an installed capacity of 120 GWh in Europe by 2030. ProLogium has also confirmed the search for its first overseas gigafactory site for next-generation solid-state batteries in Asia, Europe, or USA in light of the exponential growth in demand for electric vehicles over the next decade. The battery maker has been in discussion with multiple agencies in these regions. 