Everrati Accelerates Global Production of Electric Icons Everrati, is accelerating global production of its electrified model range thanks to surging international demand from sustainability-conscious customers. Demand for the company’s redefined, electric Porsche 911 (964) is ever-increasing, with bespoke commissions in build for customers in both US and UK. In partnership with industry-leading manufacturing partner, Aria Group, multiple 964 commissions are being realised at its state-of-the-art manufacturing and composites facility, based in Irvine, California. Its electric Land Rover ‘Series’ and Mercedes-Benz SL ‘Pagoda’, both being expertly restored by Marque specific partners, are experiencing strong demand from customers in the UK and Europe. The growth in Everrati’s international business further underlines its sector-leading ability to productionise the creation of electrified icons – and ramp up that manufacturing to meet surging interest. With order books quickly filling up, clients can now expect a lead time to delivery of approximately 11-12 months from point of order to delivery of a 964 commission. Seeking the very highest standard of EV technology that allows iconic automobiles to be enjoyed responsibly, demand for Everrati products globally is being led by sustainability-conscious Millennials and Gen-Z buyers who demand cars from the 80s and 90s, and demand EV power over ICE. Everrati’s redefined 964 models incorporate the company’s industry-leading, in-house developed OEM-standard powertrains. Blended with technology from the best Tier 1 automotive suppliers and its own in-house expertise, Everrati’s 964 range consists of Coupe, Targa & Cabriolet in narrow body, wide body and officially licenced Gulf Editions. Described as the word’s most analogue EV; its flagship 911 Signature wide body edition features a 500bhp, 500Nm EV powertrain with a highly advanced battery pack, capable of delivering an electric, emission-free driving range of 200 miles and a sub-4-second 0-62mph acceleration time. Everrati works meticulously to preserve the original ‘feel’ and character of its redefined icons with the transformation to electric power also involving the optimisation of weight distribution, chassis response and safety to enhance the performance of the original, reinvigorating its soul.  Its cars represent the very best, analogue EV driving characteristics and have to be driven to be believed. Founder and CEO of Everrati, Justin Lunny, said: “We are entering the next exciting phase of production following significant demand from across the globe in our electrified icons, particularly the zero emission Porsche 911 [964] model range. Our cars are really capturing the imagination of sustainability-conscious automotive enthusiasts, who are flocking to Everrati to experience the next generation of iconic car ownership. In partnership with leading specialist vehicle manufacturers such as Aria Group, combined with our own OEM-grade engineering and manufacturing expertise, we are the only creator of redefined electric icons fully capable of ramping up production to meet demand and build upon our global footprint.” Everrati’s total line-up of models includes: Order books are open for commissions across all vehicles at www.everrati.com 