ENSO in Talks to Supply Multiple Global EV Makers with Game Changing EV Tyres ENSO the London based EV tyre manufacturer has announced that it is in discussions with multiple international car makers and has begun trials with major fleet operators, as momentum grows behind its deployment of revolutionary eco-friendly tyres. Multiple EV manufacturers have expressed interest in fitting ENSO’s range-extending, emissions-reducing tyres. Fleet operators, meanwhile, are investigating fitting ENSO’s tyres to their electric vehicles to help lower operating costs and reduce their carbon footprint. ENSO’s tyres have already achieved highly sought after ‘A’ energy-efficiency ratings in Germany, and last year broke a Hypermiling World Record, extending the range of an unmodified Renault Zoe by 50 miles (12%) compared to standard OE tyres. With EVs wearing their tyres 20-50% faster than conventional cars, and particulate matter from tyres already a major source of UK air pollution according to DEFRA – as well as being responsible for 28% of all primary microplastics in the world’s oceans according to the IUCN – the necessity to reduce environmental impact and the opportunity to improve total operating cost is now critical. G Erlendsson, Founder and CEO of ENSO: “This is a very exciting time for ENSO. We are in advanced discussions with many leading EV manufacturers and with our eco-friendly tyres undergoing new trials with very encouraging results, we are one step closer to our goal of revolutionising the tyre industry. “Having engaged in numerous constructive commercial conversations with major investors, OEMs and fleet partners, I am very much looking forward to seeing ENSO’s reach and impact continue to quickly grow as we head into 2023.” Ongoing partnerships include a collaboration with the Mayor of London, Transport for London (TfL), DPD and Royal Mail, to deploy ENSO’s range-extending, low-emission tyres on final-mile EV delivery fleets across the capital. Another fleet operator to take advantage of ENSO’s industry-leading tyres is Zeti, which has begun fitting ENSO’s world-first, range-extending ‘A’-rated tyre for electric taxis, to over 100 of its LEVC TX London black cabs. ENSO will be announcing further clients and strategic partnerships in the near future. 