Mullen Partner with Watergen to Launch Water-from-Air Solutions for EVs Mullen has signed a partnership with Watergen to develop and equip Mullen’s portfolio of electric vehicles with technology that will produce fresh drinking water from the air for in-vehicle consumer and commercial application. Watergen is a pioneering Israel-based company and a global leader in the atmospheric drinking water devices (AWG) market, building technology and equipment that create drinking water from the air. The company’s solutions are the most effective and economical way to solve the pressing issue of drinking water scarcity in any location, at any time, and to enable the elimination of carbon-intensive supply chains and environmentally harmful plastic waste. Watergen’s technology of “air to clean drinking water” for vehicles can generate a fresh supply of hot and cold drinking water for vehicle occupants. This technology is envisioned for Mullen’s fleet of EV cargo vans and can be utilized in both commercial and recreational vehicle settings. The air-to-water systems will provide up to 5 liters of drinking water daily, directly from the air, while the vehicle is moving and can be used as a fresh water source for the vehicle occupants. The agreement between the companies has been forged over recent months, with Mullen serving as one of Watergen’s design partners for in-vehicle air-to-water technology, with the goal of Mullen initiating vehicle testing of the new service in the first quarter of 2023. Steve Elbaz, VP Mobility, Watergen, commented, “The cooperation with Mullen takes us another step towards a cleaner environment and a unique and uncompromising vehicle experience. We are working and will continue to work for a clean future – not just for us but for every person in this world.” “Our partnership with Watergen has been months in the making and is a very exciting opportunity for both our companies,” said David Michery, CEO and chairman of Mullen Automotive.  “Mullen will be the first automotive company to co-develop this technology with Watergen for our entire portfolio of electric vehicles. The opportunities for air-to-water vehicle applications are endless, and Mullen is proud to partner with Watergen on this game-changing technology.” 