Osprey to Provide Rapid EV Charging to British Garden Centres Osprey Charging, has been selected by British Garden Centres, the UK’s largest family-owned garden centre group to provide rapid electric vehicle (EV) charging at its UK stores. Osprey’s rapid chargers can add 100 miles in range to an EV in 20-30min, fitting the garden centre dwell time perfectly and allowing customers to enjoy their re-charge time in a relaxing and comfortable environment. The British Garden Centre in Carmarthen, Wales, will be the first to offer an Osprey rapid charge to its customers, at a hub with 8 ultra-rapid (150kW) chargers. The Carmarthen hub will be followed by high-power hubs planned in Wimborne (Dorset), Carr Gate (Yorkshire), Braintree (Essex) and Harrow (London). A total of 11 further sites are confirmed with a mix of these larger hubs and some smaller installations depending on the size of the site and availability of power. A family-owned and -run operation for over 40 years, British Garden Centres is reviewing its entire estate with the aim of bringing Osprey’s charging technology to all of its centres across the UK over the next few years. Last month Osprey committed to delivering accessible and safe charging when it became the first charging network to subscribe to independent public EV charging endorsement body ChargeSafe, to inspect and rate its sites – this pledge will ensure the charging facilities at each British Garden Centre are as accessible as possible in the space available. Ian Johnston, CEO of Osprey Charging said: “The British Garden Centres name is synonymous with first-class customer experience, and we’re delighted to provide safe, reliable, and accessible charging at their UK stores.  We look forward to a fruitful partnership as we work together to offer EV charging at more of its centres up and down the country.” Amy Stubbs, daughter of the founder, from British Garden Centres said: “We work hard to provide our customers with expert gardening knowledge, great value, the industry’s best gardening products and the highest quality of food in our restaurants. Partnering with Osprey allows us to build upon this further by letting our growing number of EV driving customers charge their vehicles at a time and location that is convenient for them, whilst they visit our stores.” 