Allison Transmission Exhibits New Electric Hybrid Propulsion System at Lat.Bus Allison Transmission, will exhibit at Lat.Bus & Transpúblico (Latin American Transport Fair), taking place from August 9 to 11 at the São Paulo Expo Exhibition & Convention Center. The booth/stand location is at Street D, Stand 23. Allison is actively developing solutions to support public transit agencies’ efforts and new sector requirements aiming to reduce carbon footprints and dependence on fossil fuels and enhance quality of life for passengers. One of these technologies is the new Allison eGen Flex™ electric hybrid propulsion system, the next generation of Allison’s proven H 40 EP™ electric hybrid propulsion system, which has been operating in transit buses since 2003. At the trade show devoted to manufacturers and fleet owners in the public transport sector, visitors can explore Allison fully automatic transmissions and products available to the Brazilian market via a large, interactive 3D touchscreen. eGen Flex electric hybrid already operates in several U.S. citiesIn the United States, fleet companies such as the Indianapolis Public Transportation Corporation (IndyGo), in Indianapolis; the San Francisco Municipal Transportation Agency (SFMTA) and the Municipal Railway (Muni), in San Francisco; and the Southern Nevada Transit Coalition, a public transportation system in Laughlin, Nevada, are already operating with hybrid-electric systems from Allison. Additionally, in-use testing of eGen Flex at one of the largest transit agencies in North America in 2022 confirmed the engine was off over 50% of the time the bus was in operation. As a result, the eGen Flex equipped bus operated in full EV mode for over half of its day. Allison’s eGen Flex system is capable of operating in electric-only mode for up to 16 consecutive kilometers or 50 minutes, multiple times per route and per day. The system’s geofencing technology eliminates engine emissions and noise while loading and unloading passengers in dense pedestrian areas and in zero emission zones and bus depots. Since 2003, Allison has supplied more than 9,000 electric hybrid propulsion systems worldwide. These systems have accumulated nearly 4.8 billion kilometers, saved more than 1.4 billion liters of fuel and reduced CO2 emissions by over 3.8 million metric tons. 