MAHLE, and Siemens Sign Letter of Intent for Wireless Charging Systems for EVs MAHLE, and Siemens have signed a declaration of intent for cooperation in the area of wireless charging systems for electric vehicles. In the future, both companies will jointly develop and test complete infrastructure and automotive engineering systems. One of the areas of focus will be on promoting technological standards for inductive charging technology. “We are very pleased to have found a strong partner in Siemens in order to make major advances in inductive charging. The combined experience of both companies gives us a clear competitive advantage,” said Dr. Harald Straky, Vice President for Global Development at MAHLE in the area of mechatronics and electronics. “Wireless charging of electric vehicles is emerging as a major market for the future. In addition to making life considerably easier for drivers, who no longer have to fiddle with cables and connectors, it is a crucial requirement for the autonomous mobility of tomorrow. The transfer efficiency of wireless, inductive charging is comparable to plug-in systems,” said Dr. Stefan Perras, Head of Predevelopment and Innovation for charging infrastructure at Siemens AG. MAHLE has reinforced its development activities in the field of wireless charging in recent years. This includes two projects funded by the German Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Climate Action (BMWK): One project aims to develop a cross-manufacturer inductive charging system for vehicles. In the second project, a standardized measurement method for the electromagnetic compatibility of inductive systems is being developed. The technology group is already on the market with its cable-based infrastructure solution: chargeBIG. This intelligent charging management system can be integrated into existing infrastructure at low cost and without lengthy conversions. The system is aimed at areas where electric cars are parked for extended periods of time—for example in company car parks, at airports or in the underground parking ramps of large residential complexes. 