Amsted Automotive Group’s Burgess-Norton Wins the 2022 Award of Distinction Amsted Automotive Group’s winning streak continues in 2022. Its Burgess-Norton business unit won the Award of Distinction for Automotive Transmission during the 58th Powder Metallurgy Design Excellence Awards competition held in June at the PowderMet2022 in Portland. The international conference for powder metallurgy and metal additive manufacturing is sponsored by the Metal Powder Industries Federation (MPIF). The award for Outstanding Application of Powder Metallurgy was for the driven and drive sprockets, pressure plate and sector gear used in BorgWarner production all-wheel-drive transfer cases. The Powder Metallurgy Design Excellence Awards judges on three key technologies: conventional powder metallurgy, metal injection molding and metal additive manufacturing. Categories include automotive (engine, transmission and chassis), aerospace/military/firearms, and lawn and garden/off-highway. To qualify for the competition, fabricators who are MPIF members must submit components that epitomize the possibilities inherent in this metal-forming technology, which are then judged by a panel of industry judges. In addition to winning the Award of Distinction for Automotive Transmission, Burgess-Norton was invited to speak during this year’s event. Jeff Prout, VP Product Technology; George Coppens, CAE Manager; and Xin Yin, R&D Engineer from the Powder Metallurgy business unit presented on the topics of Powder Metallurgy and the Mechanical Diode Clutch in Automatic Transmissions, Powder Metallurgy Clutching Applications in Electrified Propulsion Systems, and Confronting the Challenges of Predicting Powder Metallurgy Performance in Powertrain Applications. Burgess-Norton has a long history of excelling in powder metal innovation and manufacturing. This year’s award makes 24 times that it has been honored with an MPIF award, and 16 times that it has won the Award of Distinction. Burgess-Norton built its core business around powertrains and propulsion systems. It is the leading producer of powder metal products, having produced millions of units for all types of internal combustion engines for many leading global customers in the automotive and truck markets. The company has been at the forefront of powder metal technology for more than 65 years. 