GKN Automotive’s eDrive Technology Now Powering Two Million Vehicles on the Road GKN Automotive, has today reached a significant milestone with more than two million electrified vehicles using its eDrive technology on the road globally. The landmark is a key step for the company in decarbonising the automotive industry and helping to drive a cleaner, more sustainable world. Rising demand for electric vehicles1 has enabled GKN Automotive to increase the range and volume of its products to its existing customers, which make up 90% of OEMs globally, as well as target newer players in the industry. GKN Automotive’s ePowertrain division offers solutions for all electrified vehicles and is the only company that offers torque vectoring, hybrid transmissions, and modular eDrive systems. Its innovative modular eDrive system provides optimal efficiency and performance as well as complete flexibility for customers, enabling them to select the best solution for their requirements. It is available as a complete, fully integrated 3-in-1 system with inverter, motor, and transmission; as a 2-in-1 combination system; or as single modules and components. Last month, GKN Automotive announced its next generation inverter using 800V technology, which enables faster charging times, increased vehicle range, and improved performance for electric vehicles of the future. Its improved efficiency also creates the potential for manufacturers to reduce the weight, complexity, and cost of their electric powertrains without sacrificing performance. The development of next generation eDrive technologies is accelerated by GKN Automotive’s partnership with the Jaguar TCS Racing Formula E team, with experience gained on track transferred to the road. The two million eDrive milestone has been reached as the eighth season of Formula E draws to a close. The partnership will continue with GKN Automotive collaborating with Jaguar TCS Racing on next season’s Gen3 race car. Liam Butterworth, CEO, GKN Automotive said: “Reaching the two million mark is a significant achievement for the business and is a testament to the efficiency, high-performance and quality of the product as well as our talented engineers across the world. Electrification isn’t new to us, we have spent the past 20 years producing eDrive technologies for our customers, as we continue to lead the industry in innovative next-generation drive systems. “Powering electrified vehicles forms a crucial part of our mission to make the automotive industry more sustainable, and this milestone is an indication of our strong progress to date. We look forward to powering many more vehicles on the road as demand for a more sustainable mode of transport continues to accelerate.” 1 According to market analyst S&P, production of electric vehicles (EVs) rose from 3.4 million in 2020 to a new record of 6.7 million in 2021, with forecasts of production reaching 11 million by end of 2022. 