Volkswagen Strengthens Leadership to Accelerate Ambitious Growth Strategy in North America Volkswagen Group is strengthening its U.S. leadership team to accelerate its ambitious growth strategy in North America. As part of its NEW AUTO strategy, the Group aims to leverage the transformation to electric vehicles (EVs) in the region with a broad product portfolio and the set-up of a new company to enter the all-electric pickup space. Scott Keogh, President and CEO of Volkswagen Group of America, has been appointed President and CEO of Scout, an independent company that is being established in the U.S. Pablo Di Si, Executive Chairman of Volkswagen South American Region, will assume leadership of Volkswagen Group of America, and CEO of Volkswagen North American Region. The leadership changes will take effect September 1. Building on the EV momentum in the U.S., Volkswagen Group plans to roll out the broadest electrified portfolio in the North American market. By the decade’s end, Volkswagen Group companies aim to offer more than 25 BEV models to American consumers. Volkswagen will soon start localized production of its all-electric ID.401 compact SUV in Chattanooga, which will help meet high customer demand in the market. In addition, the Group will build up dedicated EV capabilities in engineering, research and development, assembly, components production, and strong supplier partnerships. The market‘s transformation to EVs also provides a historic chance to enter the market for all-electric pick-ups. To that end, Volkswagen AG in May decided to set up a separate company, building on the iconic Scout brand, to develop and manufacture a “true American” electric rugged SUV and pickup-truck brand in the U.S. Entering the market will help Volkswagen AG to deliver on its growth ambitions aimed at doubling the market share of Group companies in the U.S. „Scott Keogh and Pablo Di Si both have played key roles in turning around the businesses in their respective regions, North America and South America,“ said Volkswagen Group CEO Herbert Diess and added: „In their future positions, they will be pivotal in helping the Group seize the historic market opportunities in the U.S., taking our growth strategy in the region to the next level.“ Keogh will turn over his responsibilities for Volkswagen Group of America operations to senior management of Volkswagen Group of America in order to focus solely on the development of Scout. Di Si assumes his new role of President and CEO of Volkswagen Group of America, and CEO of Volkswagen North American Region, on September 1. His succession in Volkswagen South America will be announced in the near future. As President and CEO of Volkswagen Group of America, Keogh led the company’s return to profitability for the first time in years, helping dealers realize substantial profit growth while navigating COVID-19 and supply chain challenges. He’s also been driving the Group’s electric mobility push and has been instrumental in bringing the VW ID.4, ID. Buzz02 and Audi e-tron to market in North America. Di Si has led the company’s return to profitability in the Latin America market for the first time in years, promoting the most significant launch of new products in its history tailored to the region’s needs. He also led a restructuring focused on cultural transformation, creating new business models, accelerating digitalization, and improving client satisfaction. Volkswagen became the leader in the A0 SUV segment in Brazil, and the brand remains the largest producer and exporter of light vehicles in the country. 