Audi Hungry to Manufacture New E-Motor Family Audi have announced that it will manufacture a new e-motor family at it’s plant in Györ, Hungary, from 2025. The investment, in which the Hungarian Government also takes part, will help to safeguard more than 260 jobs and further strengthen Hungary’s role in the global automotive industry. “In line with the transformation of the automotive industry, it is essential for us also to transform our business model and product portfolio to maintain and further strengthen our competitiveness and provide long-term jobs for our employees. With our forward-looking products and competence-based services, we will continue to play an important role in the Volkswagen Group and contribute to Hungary’s successes in the new era of the automotive industry,” said Alfons Dintner, Chairman of the Board of Management of Audi Hungaria. The new so-called MEB ECO (Modularer E-Antriebs-Baukasten, modular electric-drive toolkit) drives are being built into Volkswagen Group’s small-sized electric cars. Production is scheduled to start in 2025 in Győr, for which a new production area will be built. The production of the new product also requires new competences as, with an increase in the production depth, the plate pack and the rotor for the electric drive will also be produced by the Győr-based staff, and the power electronics will also be manufactured in Hungary in the future. “Our company has years of experience in electric drive technology. The current range of electric motors, produced in around 100,000 units per year, will soon be joined by the next generation of electric motors, the PPE e-drives. The production of the MEB ECO powertrain family will be the next major step in the transformation of our powertrain manufacturing. Until the start of series production, we will train our employees in the new technology and help them acquire the competences needed to produce the new parts,” said Robert Buttenhauser, Member of the Board of Management of Audi Hungaria for Powertrain Production. As the world’s largest engine manufacturer, Audi Hungaria produces around 1.6 million engines a year for Volkswagen and Audi Group brands, including Volkswagen, Audi, SEAT, CUPRA, Skoda, Lamborghini and Porsche models. The company started producing electric drives in 2018, and recently completed its 300,000th e-motor in Győr. Audi Hungaria not only manufactures electric drives, but also applies its expertise it has gained in the area of processes and development activities to products already in series production and new products. The company is already well underway with preparations for the production of the new generation of e-motors, the Premium Platform Electric (PPE) e-drives. The Volkswagen Group produces electric drives at four production sites worldwide, and in this area technology and knowledge transfer and synergies between the Group’s brands play an essential role. 