Electrogenic Reveals ‘drop in’ kit to Convert Working Land Rover Defenders to Fully-Electric Power Electrogenic announces the launch of a revolutionary ‘drop in’ kit to convert working Land Rover Defenders to fully-electric power. The conversion kit, aimed at the agricultural sector and landowners, has been in development and extensively tested over the past 18 months on Worthy Farm, host of the Glastonbury Festival. The kit is designed to be installed by a suitably qualified mechanic and to be maintenance free. An electric motor is simply bolted to the Defender’s existing clutch bell housing, so the vehicle keeps all its gears.  It packs 120 bhp and 235 Nm of torque – comparable power and torque to the original diesel engine.  52kWh of batteries are mounted under the bonnet gives 100+ miles of range on-road and considerably more when driving off-road or around a farm. As standard, the kit is equipped for 7.5kW AC overnight charging via a Type 2 connector. Faster charging can be specified as an optional extra. Electrogenic conversions retain the original Defender’s versatility and four-wheel-drive, while off-road ability is improved by the fitment of the electric motor. With readily accessible torque and linear power delivery, it is effortless to drive, even in demanding off-road scenarios. Towing capability is also enhanced by the electric motor’s instant and abundant torque, while dual-stage regenerative braking enables ultra-controlled, brake-free off-road descents. Steve Drummond, Electrogenic co-founder, said, “This new electric conversion kit is a really exciting development for us. We do high-specification conversions for road-warriors, but this kit is all about giving landowners an economic, sustainable option.  It’s easy to install and uses Electrogenic’s proprietary technology.  It gives Land Rover Defenders – long a trusty workhorse for farms up and down the country – an affordable new lease of life, reducing running costs while enhancing performance and driveability around the estate. “After an extensive development programme, in partnership with automotive experts at Cardiff University, we also know that it future-proofs the traditional Defender, readying it for decades of reliable, sustainable service as we enter the age of low-carbon agriculture.” Having tested the electrified Defender alongside its diesel-powered counterparts, it is estimated that the electric version will save at least £6,000 in fuel costs over the course of an average year of on-farm use. Considering the conversion’s target price of £24,000 + VAT, the kit can pay for itself in four years. In addition to the fuel cost savings, the EV conversion can also bring significant benefits in terms of wider running-costs. The electric powertrain is designed to be entirely maintenance-free, and operate happily for decades, while the batteries are similarly robust: good for 200,000 miles or more, giving owners total peace of mind. Drummond concluded: “Defenders fitted with our easy to install kits do everything required of them on the farm quietly and efficiently. They are always there ready for use – just unplug and drive away; no more factoring in trips to the petrol station, and instant heat on cold frosty mornings. “An electrified Defender can also represent one more step towards a farm achieving its sustainability goals. The converted Defenders really deliver on all fronts, and we’re sure they’ll serve farmers ably for many years to come.” For more information in the ‘drop in’ kits, visit: www.electrogenic.co.uk 