Tropos Motors Announces Debut of the ABLE™ NXT platform Tropos Motors today announces the launch of the ABLE™ NXT platform to its existing fleet of street-legal electric vehicles. The ABLE NXT will debut at the Advanced Clean Transportation (ACT) Show in Long Beach, CA, May 9-11, 2022 in the outdoor vehicle showcase. Key features of the Tropos ABLE NXT include: “Technological advancements and strategic partnerships have allowed our team to deliver the new 100% electric ABLE NXT utility vehicle,” said John Bautista, Founder and CEO of Tropos Motors. “We have successfully transitioned from an Asian supply chain, and the ABLE NXT is now sourced in the EU.  This enables us to utilize Tier-1 suppliers, resulting in the highest quality and performance commercial LSV on the market. The ABLE NXT is our next product evolution as we continue to convert to clean and efficient electric transportation and allow businesses to become more sustainable,” he continued. The sophisticated, modular structure of the ABLE NXT allows for easy and cost-effective customization, which allows it to be utilized for many activities from last mile delivery, facility and campus maintenance, warehousing, municipality and park activities, and even as an emergency vehicle. The unique and patented Easy Swap® feature allows users to change cargo options in just 60 seconds. With only a forklift, the rapid cargo swap enables customers to be more flexible and work with preconfigured cargo boxes in last mile logistics. The user-friendly ABLE NXT also boasts an interior designed to ensure maximum efficiency, comfort and full connectivity. Tropos has already deployed over 1,000 ABLE ST, XT & XR light commercial electric vehicles globally and is approaching pre-orders of 1,100 units of the new ABLE NXT platform, and is continuing to accept pre-orders for the new ABLE NXT, with deliveries expected to begin in Q3 2022. You can preview the ABLE NXT at the ACT Expo in Long Beach, CA, May 9-11, 2022 in Booth #149. 