Hyzon Motors Appoints Samuel Chong as CFO Hyzon Motors, today announced that Samuel Chong has been appointed Chief Financial Officer, effective April 12, 2022.  Mr. Chong will succeed Mark Gordon, who has served as Hyzon’s Chief Financial Officer since August 2020.  Mr. Gordon will assist with the transition and serve as a senior advisor over the next twelve months. Mr. Chong comes to Hyzon with significant financial executive experience in companies engaged in innovative new technologies.  Most recently, Mr. Chong acted as Treasurer and Head of Investor Relations at Fluence Energy, a leading global provider of grid scale energy storage products and services and artificial intelligence (AI)-enabled digital applications for renewables and storage. Previously, Mr. Chong was the Treasurer of Gogo Inc., which is the world’s largest provider of broadband connectivity services for the business aviation market.  At Gogo, Mr. Chong helped to lead a series of debt refinancing and strategic initiatives.  Prior to Gogo Inc., Mr. Chong was engaged in investment banking and proprietary investments at domestic and international financial institutions.  Mr. Chong holds both a BA in Economics and an MBA from the University of Chicago. “It is a privilege to join a global first mover and technology innovator in the rapidly evolving hydrogen mobility space.  I look forward to executing on the business plan to accelerate the clean energy transition by deploying zero emission commercial vehicles as well as building out an ecosystem of renewable and affordable hydrogen,” said Mr. Chong. “We are delighted to have Sam join the growing Hyzon team and help drive the business towards scale production and profitability. Hyzon will benefit from his significant experience in investor relations and treasury functions, combined with his investment banking background,” said Craig Knight, CEO.  “In addition, we would like to thank Mark for serving as Hyzon’s CFO.  He was instrumental in guiding us through the business combination with Decarbonization Plus Acquisition Corporation and thereby setting the stage for Hyzon to be a public company.  His deep understanding of energy, and the future role of hydrogen,  has also been an invaluable resource.” 