Copenhagen Airport to Become Denmark’s Largest EV Charging Site As part of a long-term agreement, charging infrastructure from ABB will play a key role in helping Copenhagen Airport (CPH) achieve carbon-neutrality in operations by 2030. Over the next ten years, ABB will provide energy group EWII with 1,350 EV chargers for installation at one of Scandinavia’s busiest airports that will become Denmark’s largest site for electric vehicle (EV) charging. The first 180 AC chargers and 15 DC fast chargers will be installed in 2022. Financial details of the contract were not disclosed. “We are pleased to support CPH in their sustainable transition with our broad portfolio of quality and professional charging solutions”, said Frank Muehlon, CEO of ABB E-mobility. “We are convinced that it will not only serve as inspiration for other airports in Denmark but also in other countries and that it will again demonstrate the possibilities and benefits of clean, quiet and flexible electric mobility.” CPH was looking for a holistic EV charging solution for its more than 80,000 daily travelers and employees parking on site. The solution also needed to serve vehicles in need of faster charging including taxis dropping off travelers and businesses operating inside the airport handling transportation, luggage and catering. To meet this demand EWII teamed up with a number of partners, including ABB to supply the 1,350 charging points. The charging infrastructure will consist of chargers from ABB’s entire portfolio, from the 22kW Terra AC wallbox to the recently launched Terra 360, the world’s fastest all-in-one electric car charger, which can deliver 100km of range in less than three minutes and is the only charger designed explicitly to charge up to four vehicles at once. ”With ABB as our e-mobility partner, we are assured access to a wide range of solutions that can charge everything from cars to buses and trucks. Additionally, it was crucial for us and the airport that the charging stations be both reliable and of the highest quality. As an experienced global partner, which helps to drive innovation in EV charging infrastructure, ABB performs on all parameters”, says Jesper Nicolaisen, Head of Wholesale at EWII. IMAGE CREDIT: Copenhagen Airport 