Sono Motors to Produce Sion Solar Electric Vehicle at Valmet Automotive Sono Motors and Valmet Automotive today announced the signing of a binding term sheet, specifying all substantial parameters regarding the collaboration and the production of the Sion solar electric vehicle (SEV). The Finnish contract manufacturer will produce the Sion at its plant in Uusikaupunki. Valmet Automotive will provide the capacity to produce more than 257,000 vehicles over a seven-year period. “The cooperation marks another milestone towards delivering the Sion to our growing Community. We are convinced that collaborating with such a reliable and experienced partner is an excellent match for bringing the Sion to the streets, while securing high quality standards. We value Valmet Automotive’s experience in manufacturing premium automobiles and their proven track record in electro mobility,” says Laurin Hahn, CEO and co-founder of Sono Motors. “Together we are well positioned to keep our promise and deliver a climate-neutral Sion to our customers.” “The cooperation with Sono Motors is a perfect fit with Valmet Automotive’s strategy, capabilities, and sustainable approach in all operations. We have been pioneers in electric vehicle manufacturing since 2009, and the innovative solar electric Sion will take us to the next level as the first high-volume, fully electric vehicle to be produced in the Uusikaupunki plant. In the rapidly changing automotive industry, Sono Motors is a leading exponent. We are looking forward to supporting Sono Motors in their electromobility targets,” says Olaf Bongwald, CEO, Valmet Automotive. Valmet Automotive started car manufacturing in 1968 as a joint venture with Saab. Since then, the company built more than 1.7 million cars as a contract manufacturer for some of the world’s leading OEMs. General price increases, the switch to Valmet Automotive and the development of new production lines will lead to increased funding needs of at least €275 million (including expected cash inflow from advance payments from reservations) by the start of production (SOP) in the second half of 2023. The Valmet Automotive facilities in Uusikaupunki allow for the production of a low four-digit volume in 2023, which will be followed by a ramp-up period. After this period, which will likely take a few months, the partners aim to produce approximately 43,000 Sion a year, using one hundred percent renewable energy. Sono Motors currently expects that all production-related greenhouse gas emissions that cannot be avoided along its supply chain, or during the production process of the vehicles, will be fully offset through relevant measures. Valmet Automotive is one of the world’s most sustainable contract manufacturers and is certified as climate neutral as of 1 January 2022. 