Saietta to Transform Polluting Buses into Clean, Sustainable and Zero-Emission Vehicles Saietta, specialists in high-tech advanced e-mobility propulsion, is intensifying an important overhaul operation to transform existing high polluting diesel-engine-powered buses and coaches into clean, sustainable and zero-emission vehicles. Through its RetroMotion division, Saietta is equipped with the technical expertise, engineering experience and state-of-the-art propulsion systems and software to offer fleet operators an economical, effective and optimal solution to ‘electrify’ existing buses and coaches. By working with the RetroMotion engineering team, bus and coach service providers can revitalise their aging, polluting diesel-based fleet to a retrofit propulsion solution that is modern, all-electric, clean, silent-running and sustainable. A real-world zero-emissions driving range of up to 350kms is possible with the all-electric retrofit powertrain, depending on individual specification, application and vehicle size. RetroMotion’s ambitious strategy is part of Saietta’s wider plans to ensure densely populated city centres become cleaner, greener and quieter living spaces. “Saietta Group prides itself on being at the vanguard of e-mobility propulsion with the aim of democratizing clean sustainable transportation around the globe and within every sector, from two-wheel scooters to compact passenger cars and right through to bus, coach and heavy goods vehicles,” said Wicher Kist, chief executive officer at Saietta. “But we also understand that such important yet dramatic change – effectively replacing outdated internal combustion engines (ICEs) with new battery electric powertrains – can’t be successfully achieved overnight. That’s why we are stepping up the efforts of our RetroMotion engineering division. We want to give coach and bus operators an opportunity to transform their aging and polluting fleet into a green mobility service that’s modern and clean. “RetroMotion’s services mean fleet operators don’t have to make sudden and huge outlays on all-new electric vehicles. These important investments can be done incrementally thanks to the possibility of upgrading and extending the lifespan of existing buses and coaches, in the process also meeting upcoming tough legislation.” RetroMotion’s expertise in this area spans nearly two decades from the point at which the organisation first saw a need from the market for this tech solution, with a detailed research and development program being implemented thereafter. 