Vitesco Wins Billion Euro Order to Supply High Voltage Inverters Vitesco Technologies has won an order worth more than 1 billion euros from a major North American car manufacturer. The company will supply millions of 800-volt inverters with silicon carbide technology – a key enabler for fast charging and improving EV efficiency and range. At the same time, Vitesco Technologies is to expand its global presence and production facilities: The plan is for this high-voltage inverter complete with power module to be generated in North America beginning in early 2025. Vitesco Technologies was among the first automotive suppliers to focus so firmly on electric mobility. The most recent incoming orders endorse this consistent approach. We are pursuing a clear-cut plan that will drive forward our mission to deliver clean, zero-emission mobility. In the final quarter of 2021 alone, incoming orders for electrification components totaled more than 2 billion euros. Along with the major order from North America, Vitesco Technologies also received orders from one Chinese and one Japanese automaker – each valued at several hundred million euros. These orders for battery electric vehicle technology, are specifically for high-voltage axle drives that are manufactured and supplied as complete systems, as well as the necessary high-voltage power electronics. For Vitesco Technologies, these welcome new orders go to show that its extensive experience with electric drive components and its vast systems expertise give the company a decisive competitive edge. Vitesco Technologies brings its innovations to market fast, so that automakers across the globe can offer electric mobility solutions that are as efficient as they are affordable. “With our portfolio, we are fully focused on global, scalable platforms for electrified vehicles. This is where the growth is happening and it’s also where there is real potential for the sustainable and increasingly carbon-neutral mobility of the future,” says Thomas Stierle, Member of the Executive Board and head of  the Electrification Technology business unit at Vitesco Technologies. “The latest orders clearly prove the point. The electrification of automotive drive systems is progressing faster than ever − and Vitesco Technologies is among the prime movers and beneficiaries of this global trend”. Find out more about Vitesco Technologies High Voltage Inverters by visiting www.vitesco-technologies.com. 