Bigger E-Bike Subsidies And Tax Credits On The Horizon With governments looking to make e-bike ownership easier than ever before, now may be the best time to make the two-wheeled shift. If I were to ask you your thoughts about e-bikes, chances are I’d get a bunch of mixed reactions. On the one hand, a lot of people are extremely optimistic about the future of mobility, and see electric bikes and other personal mobility devices as essential in paving the way forward. On the other hand, there are skeptics who question the very essence of e-bikes, labeling them as pointless, gimmicky, and more of a problem than the solution. Nevertheless, the numbers don’t lie, and it’s foreseen that the e-bike business will balloon into a $120 billion industry by 2030. Indeed, when properly regulated, electric bikes have proven to be an effective replacement for cars when it comes to urban mobility, providing multifaceted benefits to its users, as well as society as a whole. As such, it’s no surprise that governments are taking big steps in promoting e-bike adoption within their localities. Indeed, we need not look far, as in the US, we can soon expect bigger financial incentives for people looking to get into the e-bike fold. These incentives are government-funded projects which include rebates, tax credits, and discounts making electric bicycles more affordable and accessible for a wider audience. In an article by Electrek, it’s stated that Colorado offers one of the most significant e-bike incentive programs, providing up to $1,800 in subsidies. That’s quite a huge chunk of change, as some entry-level e-bikes are priced even lower than $1,800. Other states such as California are also reportedly developing their own incentive programs, although specific details have yet to be confirmed as of this writing. The rapidly growing popularity of electric bicycles in the US is also putting a lot of pressure on cities to improve cycling infrastructure. If we fix our gaze over to Europe, we’ll have seen some massive cycling-focused initiatives in countries like Germany, Sweden, and The Netherlands, so much so that these projects seem to be outpacing mainstream transportation infrastructure developments. At the very least, we’re looking at massive integration projects that focus on safety, accessibility, and road-sharing among car drivers and VRUs (vulnerable road users). It goes without saying that the US could benefit from widespread e-bike adoption, particularly in cities that have been experiencing worsening traffic conditions. E-bikes have also proven to be good for their users’ health and wellbeing, promoting an active lifestyle and exploring the great outdoors. These days, consumers are spoiled for choice with the vast selection of models available on the market. We recently talked about ultra affordable bikes such as the Lectric XPeak, a machine that serves as a solid springboard into the world of e-mobility. On the flipside, there are also tons of fancy e-bikes that blur the line between mobility and lifestyle. 