Used EV Tax Credits, Ocean Range, Porsche And Nissan Fun: EV News Mar 31 As we head into the weekend, there's plenty of interesting EV news to share, like the $4.000 used EV tax credit. This week, we have news on Tax Credits for Used EVs, Peak Oil, Ocean Range, and Electric Fun from Porsche and Nissan: Our Top EV News for the week of Mar 31, 2023. If you like EV news, make sure to subscribe to our bi-weekly EV newsletter. You can find our most recent edition here. Bio: John is the COO at EPG, a company focused on helping electric and autonomous vehicle companies hire the best talent. In addition to these services, EPG puts out an informative weekly newsletter dubbed Mobility EVo. You can sign up for the newsletter here. We talked about buying a new EV, but what about a used EV? As of January 1, 2023, you could be eligible for a used clean vehicle tax credit of 30% of the sale price up to $4,000.  To qualify, an individual must: Take advantage if you are in the market for a used EV. Click for more info. Enverus Intelligence Research (EIR) has released an updated EV outlook, highlighting the impacts of EV adoption on energy demand and gasoline displacement. The report reveals that EV market share growth in Europe and China is surpassing expectations, with over 20 US states committing to California's adoption targets. Key findings include: The Fisker Ocean Extreme is on track to receive approval from European authorities by the end of April, with deliveries expected to commence soon after. As it stands, the Ocean Extreme boasts the longest range of any SUV in Europe. Additional key points include: A segment that may take a little convincing to convert to electric is the sports car segment.  The smell of the fuel and the sound of a flat-six as it approaches 9000 rpm. An electric Boxster/Cayman or an electric R32 may help convince them. The all-electric Porsche Boxster has been caught in the wild, with several prototypes braving the snowy roads in Sweden for cold weather testing. Nissan Japan recently teased an electrified R32 Skyline GT-R on Twitter with the hashtag R32EV. Sign me up! Can we also get an electric R34? Decisions Decisions. Which would you choose for your canyon carver? Want these stories and more directly in your inbox every Thursday? Sign up now! 