Solar-charged Pebble Flow joins off-grid EV travel trailer rivalry California-based startup Pebble is the latest to offer an electric travel trailer that uses battery power to assist a tow vehicle, potentially reducing the range loss of an electric tow vehicle. Debuting at the 2023 Los Angeles auto show next month, the Pebble Flow features a 45-kwh LFP battery pack and self-propulsion "providing just the right amount of power to assist the tow vehicle" as a hedge against range anxiety, according to a Pebble press release. So while the Flow still requires a vehicle with a 6,200-lb towing capacity, it's designed to reduce range loss while towing—which can be substantial.  The battery pack can also be used as an emergency home backup power source, Pebble claims. It can be topped off with an integrated 1-kw solar array, with full charging via conventional AC or DC fast-charging connectors.  Pebble Flow travel trailer Measuring 25 feet long, seven feet six inches wide, and eight feet eight inches tall, the trailer can also align itself with a tow hitch, using its motor to maneuver into place. Once unhooked, it can also be remote controlled via a smartphone app for parking. Once parked, an awning, lights, steps, and auto-leveling stabilizers can all be deployed with the push of a button, Pebble claims. The trailer sleeps up to four people and features 270-degree wraparound windows, a removable induction cooktop, convection microwave, and a full-size refrigerator. Pebble is currently taking pre-orders, with deliveries expected to start by the end of 2024. Pricing starts at $109,000, with a dual-motor version bundling remote control and most of the other notable tech features starting at $125,000.  Pebble Flow travel trailer Other companies are also showing travel trailers that use onboard battery packs to assist a tow vehicle, or otherwise mitigate EV range loss while towing. Airstream is working on a production version of its eStream concept, shown in January 2022. It's using a system from ZF that's already been proven with real-world drives extending the range of towing EVs. The U.S. startup Lightship is also working on its L1 travel trailer, which has an 80-kwh battery pack and a similar idea, with a propulsion system helping EVs with the towing task. Alternatively, Colorado Teardrops is offering a trailer that lets you bring along extra batteries to fast-charge the EV you tow it with. These are all options in addition to a series of electric RVs also on the way—like the Grounded G2 revealed this week—so let the competition begin. 