SIA Welcomes Selection of National Semiconductor Technology Center Leadership by Semiconductor Industry AssociationWASHINGTON—Oct. 11, 2023—The Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA) today released the following statement from SIA President and CEO John Neuffer welcoming the selection of the board of trustees of the National Semiconductor Technology Center (NSTC), a critical entity established by the CHIPS and Science Act of 2022 to promote U.S. semiconductor research and development. An independent selection committee was convened in June of this year to identify and appoint NSTC leadership.“We welcome the selection of the NSTC’s initial board of trustees, a distinguished group with extensive and diverse knowledge and experience that will be a tremendous asset in advancing domestic chip research and innovation. Today’s announcement is a significant step toward ensuring swift and effective implementation of the CHIPS and Science Act’s critical R&D provisions. We look forward to working with the NSTC’s board of trustees, its eventual executive leadership and staff, and Secretary Raimondo and other leaders in the Commerce Department to ensure the CHIPS and Science Act delivers maximum benefits to America’s economy, national security, and technological competitiveness.”SIA and the Boston Consulting Group (BCG) last October released a report identifying five key areas of the semiconductor R&D ecosystem that should be strengthened by the CHIPS Act’s R&D funding. The report, titled “American Semiconductor Research: Leadership Through Innovation,” highlights the importance of government-industry collaboration on the NSTC and the National Advanced Packaging Manufacturing Program (NAPMP). The study also calls for CHIPS funding to be used to bridge key gaps in the current semiconductor R&D ecosystem to help pave the way for sustained U.S. chip innovation leadership.The CHIPS Act’s manufacturing incentives have already sparked substantial investments in the U.S.  In fact, companies in the semiconductor ecosystem have announced dozens of new projects across America—totaling more than $210 billion in private investments—since the CHIPS Act was introduced. These announced projects will create more than 40,000 jobs in the semiconductor ecosystem and support hundreds of thousands of additional U.S. jobs throughout this economy.# # #