Sivers demos DFB laser arrays supporting 4 Terabit GPU-to-GPU communication for generative AI IC and integrated module supplier Sivers  Semiconductors AB of Kista, Sweden says that, at the European Conference  on Optical Communication (ECOC 2023) in Glasgow,  Scotland, UK (1–5 October), its subsidiary Sivers Photonics of Glasgow, Scotland, UK is showcasing its range of custom III-V photonic devices in booth #615  of the exhibition (2–4 October),  with a focus on CW-WDM MSA compliant 8-wavelength O-band CW DFB laser arrays (shown  as part of a live demo). Specifically, Sivers is hosting a joint live  demonstration with silicon photonics-based chip-to-chip optical connectivity firm Ayar Labs of Santa Clara,  CA, USA, showcasing Sivers’ 8-wavelength distributed feedback (DFB) laser array, integrated into the Ayar Labs SuperNova multi-wavelength optical source supporting 4 Terabit data communication. This joint technology between the firms is said  to be driving breakthroughs supporting generative AI applications. As  foundational AI models have become larger and more complex, they require more  GPU processing and memory capacity. Integrating optical I/O within the GPU package to communicate with the  rest of the GPU cluster allows for efficient scaling of infrastructures to  handle ever-growing AI demands. By using optical connections instead of  electrical connections, power consumption  can be reduced by up to 90% while allowing for 5–10x better communication within the AI cluster to  increase utilization of all GPUs. “Electrical  communication in generative AI  clusters is getting to its limit, with regards to speed, heat and capacity,” notes  Sivers Semiconductors’ group CEO Anders Storm. “With Sivers laser array we will be able  to allow for 5–10x better performance with up to 90% less power consumption to give  generative AI clusters the performance needed,” he adds. “With Sivers’ lasers  integrated in Ayar Labs SuperNova multi-wavelength optical source, we are working  together to solve one of the main challenges for GPU-to-GPU communication to  support the future revolution of generative AI applications.” In addition to its presence at the exhibition,  Sivers Photonics’ interim managing director & chief technology officer  Andrew McKee is presenting ‘Advances in InP Laser Arrays for Data Centre and Sensing Applications’ on 3 October  (11.20am) on the Market Focus stage in the exhibition area. McKee is also a speaker and panellist in the  symposium ‘PICs for Quantum Applications’ (3 October, 3.30–5pm), presenting ‘High Performance  Laser sources for Hybrid PIC Quantum Applications’. 