OpenLight samples fully integrated 2xFR4 PASIC photonic integrated circuit OpenLight of  Santa Barbara, CA, USA (which launched as an independent company in June  2022, introducing the first open silicon photonics platform with  heterogeneously integrated III-V lasers) has made available samples of a fully integrated 2x FR4 Photonic Application Specific Integrated Circuit (2xFR4 PASIC). The firm’s PASIC  technology integrates all the components of silicon photonics devices, both active and passive components, into  one chip. Designed to meet the ever-evolving demands  of data-center and AI cluster  connections, the new 2xFR4 PASIC 800G photonic integrated circuit (PIC) harnesses the power of  heterogeneous integration, combining lasers and electro-absorption modulators  for what is claimed to be unparalleled performance and versatility with the  cost and reliability of traditional silicon photonics.  This addresses the growing demand for faster data processing,  reduced power consumption,  simplified product development, and cost savings  in critical computing environments. OpenLight says that, with this PASIC, it is  enhancing its offerings by introducing coarse wavelength division multiplexing (CWDM) capabilities to its family of  reference designs. The 2xFR4 PASIC integrates all essential  components into a single chip, replacing up to 16 individual components that  would otherwise require assembly steps with disparate parts and complex  back-end manufacturing processes adding cost and large capital equipment expenditures. This results in  simplified supply chain logistics  and straightforward manufacturing processes that drastically reduce power consumption and overall costs compared  with other solutions. “With our revolutionary integration of  lasers and electro-absorption modulators, 2xFR4 PASIC epitomizes our dedication  to simplifying complexity, reducing costs, and setting new standards in  efficiency,” says CEO Dr Adam  Carter. “We’re providing our customers with a validated reference design that not only accelerates their  time to market  but also empowers them to take control of their destiny in the supply chain,” he adds. “We are excited to be the manufacturing  partner for OpenLight and look forward to this cutting-edge, validated  reference design accelerating our  mutual customer’s product development with tested samples and ready design files saving substantial time and  cost,” says Russell Ellwanger, CEO of Tower Semiconductor. “This fully  integrated solution incorporating lasers and electro-absorption modulators is a  testament to our strong partnership and joint commitment to investing toward  the adoption of silicon photonic  technology in high-volume manufacturing.” Customers can use the 2xFR4 PASIC  validated reference design to build  products without having to design, engineer, and test their own solutions. OpenLight offers tested samples, comprehensive  test results, and design files, potentially saving customers up to  18 months of engineering work  compared to designing from scratch, it is reckoned, significantly reducing time to market  for customers. 