Coherent unveils first 140GBaud optical subassembly to enable 800G in ultra-compact pluggable form factors Materials, networking and laser technology firm  Coherent Corp of Saxonburg, PA, USA has launched its 140GBaud integrated coherent  transmitter-receiver optical subassembly  (IC-TROSA), which is claimed to be the first to enable 800G QSFP-DD and OSFP  digital coherent optics (DCO)  pluggable transceivers for high-speed data-center interconnects and metro  networks. Artificial intelligence and machine learning (AI/ML) applications are accelerating the  exponential growth of data-center traffic in cloud networks, driving the demand  for efficient bandwidth upgrades in data-center interconnects and optical  transport networks. The 140GBaud IC-TROSA is claimed to be the first to enable  800Gbps ZR/OpenZR+ transmission in data-center interconnects and metro  communications networks in the ultra-dense QSFP-DD and OSFP pluggable form factors. The IC-TROSA is a highly integrated  coherent optics subassembly with  embedded optical amplification that can deliver high transmitter output power with low power dissipation, enabling DCO modules that can plug  directly into routers. The solution is said to lower the total cost of network ownership for hyperscalers and service providers by  eliminating an entire layer of transponder equipment. “This 140GBaud IC-TROSA follows the 64GBaud  IC-TROSA introduced in March 2020, which was also an industry first,” says  Matthias Berger, VP, coherent technology, at Coherent. “We continue to advance  the state of the art  of optical transmission in core networks by leveraging the inherent  capabilities of our indium phosphide  technology platform. Indium phosphide  photonic integrated circuits are  differentiated by their high output power, which enables disruptive use cases such as IP-over-DWDM in metro networks.” Coherent’s IC-TROSA was combined with the  Orion digital signal processor (DSP) from Marvell to demonstrate the  performance capabilities of a complete transceiver solution for 800Gbps  transmission. “Marvell’s close collaboration with Coherent  has enabled us to showcase the power of the combination of technologies from  two leading companies,” says Samuel Liu Sr, director, product line management, coherent DSP at Marvell. “Together, the 140GBaud IC-TROSA  and the Orion coherent DSP enable  pluggable transceivers for 800Gbps with more than 500km reach, allowing  data-center interconnects to scale network capacity quickly and economically so  as to accommodate the surging traffic from AI/ML and other distributed,  data-intensive workloads.” The 140GBaud IC-TROSA is a complete coherent  optical engine that includes a wavelength-tunable laser, optical amplifiers, modulators, drivers, a coherent mixer,  a photodiode array, and transimpedance amplifiers (TIAs). It features an  embedded microcontroller, DAC/ADCs, and a simple digital communication  interface for all control and monitoring. The module supports symbol rates of  up to 140GBaud and multiple modulation formats, including QPSK, 8QAM, 16QAM,  32QAM and 64QAM. It is designed to meet the requirements of the OIF IC-TROSA  Implementation Agreement (Type-2  version). Alpha samples of the  140GBaud IC-TROSA are available now, and the product will be generally  available in mid-2024. Coherent is exhibiting in stand #406  at European Conference on Optical Communications (ECOC 2023)  in Glasgow, Scotland, UK (2–4 October). At the conference, Coherent is showcasing the  most recent additions to its portfolio of differentiated solutions for telecom  and datacom optical networks. 