Coherent and Kinetic extend partnership to enable 100G services at network edge Materials, networking and laser technology firm  Coherent Corp of Saxonburg, PA, USA and Kinetic by Windstream, a business  unit of communications and software company Windstream that provides  fiber-based connectivity, collaboration and security services across 18 states in the USA, have their existing partnership  to enable 400G services has been extended to enable 100G services at the edge  of the network, leveraging what is claimed to be the industry’s first 100G  QSFP28 0dBm digital coherent optics  (DCO) transceiver. The rapid growth of data traffic driven by  enterprise and cloud networks, including the exponential growth of artificial intelligence  (AI) and machine learning (ML) applications,  is driving demand for next-generation transmission technology that enables  service providers to efficiently expand the capacity of the transport network,  note the firms. With the new high-power 100G transceivers from Coherent,  Kinetic will be able to optically connect routers directly to access, metro and  regional transport networks without additional intermediary interfaces,  eliminating an entire layer of optical equipment. “The 100G QSFP28 DCO transceiver with 0dBm  output power is the industry’s first, and it enables  Kinetic to deploy 100Gbps coherent transceiver technology in the access  aggregation networks efficiently and sustainably,” says Matthias Berger, VP,  coherent technology, at Coherent.  “These benefits are achieved thanks to the transceiver’s unique features,  including Coherent’s Steelerton digital signal processor (DSP) optimized for  100G, cost-efficient silicon photonics  technology, high-power indium phosphide  (InP) tunable lasers, and Flextune technology,” he adds. “We are pleased to expand our partnership with  Coherent, which has been vital in accelerating the scale of our network in a  sustainable way as we continue to deliver on our commitment to bring fiber  connectivity to businesses and homes across rural America,” says Kinetic’s chief  technology officer Jeff Austin. “Coherent’s  high-transmit-power 0dBm 100G QSFP28  DCO transceivers will add to the existing 0dBm 400G QSFP-DD DCO transceivers to enable Kinetic to  deploy greatly simplified network architectures,” he adds. “This will further  accelerate the revolution in IP-over-DWDM networks to achieve efficiency and  scale across our 18-state network, affording Kinetic a highly competitive  operational model.” Kinetic validated the new 100G transceiver  technology through a live network trial consisting of 820km  transmission over 14 cascaded ROADM nodes. The live trial was achieved over a  production link at 75% channel capacity  carrying a mix of 10G, 100G and 400G signals from multiple technology  generations. The 100G transceivers operated flawlessly end-to-end over the  network, exceeding optical performance requirements and validating the IEEE  electrical interface standard. Coherent is demonstrating the 100G QSFP28 0dBm  transceiver in stand #406 at European Conference on  Optical Communications (ECOC 2023) in Glasgow, Scotland, UK (2–4 October). At  the conference, Coherent is showcasing the most recent additions to its  portfolio of differentiated solutions for telecom and datacom optical networks. 