ROHM launches sensor for attachment/detachment and proximity detection Japan-based ROHM  has developed the compact (2.0mm x 1.0mm) RPR-0720 proximity sensor,  optimized for applications requiring attachment/detachment and proximity  detection. As the use of IoT  continues to grow, sensor devices that play a critical role require greater  miniaturization and functionality, says ROHM. The firm offers proximity sensors  that combine light emitting and receiving elements in a single package,  providing versatility that has led to adoption in a range of applications, from  mobile devices to industrial equipment. Particularly for wearable devices, in  response to the growing demand for small proximity sensors that can  support improved designs and an increase in the number of parts resulting from  higher functionality, ROHM has developed a compact proximity sensor that  integrates a vertical-cavity surface-emitting laser (VCSEL) and sensor IC.  The RPR-0720 is  an optical sensor module that adopts a VCSEL featuring higher directivity than  LEDs as the light-emitting element and a sensor IC for the light-receiving  element. Compact size is achieved by optimizing the module structure using  in-house chips, reducing area by about 78% compared with conventional products.  At the same time, the wide input voltage range (2.7–4.5V) of the built-in  VCSEL eliminates the need for a peripheral voltage booster circuit  (consisting of a power supply IC, three capacitors, and one inductor) when  using a Li-ion battery, contributing to greater space savings and leading  to smaller applications and increased battery capacity. This makes it suitable  not only for sensing attachment/detachment, but also for detecting various  conditions in a wide range of applications.  ROHM says that, going  forward, it will continue to develop sensing products that combine original  light-receiving and -emitting elements to further improve energy savings  and convenience. Suitable  applications that use light reflection to detect conditions include: ROHM also offers the RPR-0720-EVK evaluation board for the  RPR-0720 proximity sensor. A user guide is available on ROHM’s website. Online distributors include DigiKey, Mouser and Farnell. The products  will be offered at other online distributors as they become available. 