ams OSRAM unveils ALIYOS LED-on-foil technology for automotive lighting At the International Symposium on Automotive Lighting (ISAL 2023) in Darmstadt,  Germany (25-27 September), ams OSRAM GmbH of Premstätten, Austria and  Munich, Germany has unveiled ALIYOS LED-on-foil technology, which it says opens  up new possibilities for design freedom and creativity in automotive lighting. Using ALIYOS  technology, car makers can “express brand personality” through exterior and  interior lighting in previously unattainable ways, the firm adds, as well as  introducing new three-dimensional lighting and animation effects for displaying  dynamic individual messages and information signals to drivers and other road  users. “The  introduction of advanced LED-on-foil technology marks a new revolution in the  way that LEDs are applied in automotive lighting, giving customers exciting new  opportunities to differentiate vehicle brands,” says Gerald Broneske, VP global  product marketing OS Automotive at ams OSRAM. ams OSRAM says  that ALIYOS technology enables it to apply mini-LEDs on a thin, flexible and  transparent substrate. The mini-LEDs can be arranged with a large degree of  freedom to form individually addressable segments of any shape. They can be  positioned to perform standard lighting functions such as a stop light or turn indicator, but with unique, custom shapes and animation  effects. The mini-LEDs can also be used to display symbols, words, images or  abstract patterns for decoration, information or warning. Transparency,  in combination with mini-LEDs, means that light can appear out of nowhere. In  addition, multiple foil assemblies can be placed one behind the other to create  new 3D lighting and animation  effects. ams OSRAM is  now working with leading automotive tier-one suppliers and OEMs to explore the  new possibilities in automotive interior and exterior lighting. One  demonstration design exploits the transparency of the ALIYOS foil substrate to  produce new 3D effects in rear lights: a transparent array of three  ALIYOS LED foils mounted one behind  the other creates a sense of depth. Another design  shows that ALIYOS LED-on-foil technology can be applied to curved body panels, and is invisible when turned off,  creating the effect of ‘Light out of nowhere’.  Due to the  transparency, thinness and flexibility of ALIYOS technology, thousands of other  new design possibilities are now open to car manufacturers, says the firm.  Legal requirements, for example UN Regulation No. 148 for the brightness of rear light and stop lights as well as turn indicators,  can be met through the application of ALIYOS technology, it adds. Industrialization  of the technology has begun. The aim is to enable the first cars to be equipped  with ALIYOS technology by the end of 2025, and to have achieved qualification  for compliance with automotive quality and safety standards by this time. 