Germany and Bavaria governments to provide €300m IPCEI funding for ams OSRAM to expand opto R&D and manufacturing ams OSRAM GmbH of Premstätten, Austria and Munich, Germany has received notice of substantial public funding – via the European Commission’s  Important Projects of Common European Interest (IPCEI) program for funding  digital and green initiatives – from  Germany’s Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Climate Action  (BMWK) and the Free State of Bavaria’s Ministry of  Economic Affairs, Regional Development and Energy. The application for public subsidies  of more than €300m over five years is subject to final notice of the  grant. At an event at the German Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs  and Climate Action on 18 September, ams OSRAM presented its  project, launched within the  scope of the IPCEI ME/CT (Microelectronics and Communication Technologies). The funding will be invested mainly in R&D and manufacturing  processes for optoelectronic semiconductors, creating 400 new jobs at the firm’s site in Regensburg, joining 2700  existing staff. In addition, ams OSRAM will invest in new cleanroom and  laboratory facilities for research, development and pilot production –  equipped for various applications (e.g. UV-C LEDs for disinfection and  near-infrared emitters for LiDAR for autonomous driving), as well as  applications in the context of Industry 4.0. Another focus will be  micro-LEDs for use in an all-new type of display. ams OSRAM says that automation  and artificial intelligence (AI) generally play a major role in  Regensburg, enabling it to break new ground at its production facilities. The  construction of the first pilot assembly line for 8” wafer production  is currently underway in order to launch the cost-efficient large-scale  production of micro-LEDs in the very near future. “By expanding our development activities in the field of  optoelectronic semiconductors, we can create room for innovation and accelerate  the time to market for our products,” says ams OSRAM’s CEO Aldo  Kamper. “At the same time, our investment is a clear commitment to Regensburg  as an industrial hub, Bavaria as a high-tech location, and Europe as a hotbed  of innovation,” he adds. “Here we create new, energy-efficient products and  production processes to drive digitalization and thus support the European Green Deal  and the autonomy of Europe in the field of semiconductors. In line with our  future-oriented ‘Re-Establish the Base’ program, we will continue to build on  ams OSRAM’s market-leading core competency and shape the future of the  semiconductor market from this Bavarian city,” he adds. 