First Solar breaks ground on $1.1bn 3.5GW Louisiana factory Cadmium telluride (CdTe) thin-film photovoltaic (PV) module maker First Solar Inc  of Tempe, AZ, USA has broken ground its fifth fully vertically  integrated factory in the USA. Sited in Iberia Parish, Louisiana (as announced on 10 August), the ceremony  was attended by the Governor of Louisiana John Bel Edwards and other  dignitaries from the state. Believed to be  the largest capital investment in the area’s history, the manufacturing facility  represents an investment of about $1.1bn in expanding the USA’s capacity to  produce photovoltaic solar panels. Expected to start commercial shipments  by first-half 2026, it is forecasted to grow First Solar’s nameplate manufacturing capacity by  3.5GW to about 14GW in the USA and 25GW globally in 2026. When completed,  the fully vertically integrated manufacturing facility will cover over 2 million  square feet and is designed to transform a sheet of glass into a  ready-to-ship Series 7 module in about 4.5 hours, producing over one  dozen new solar panels every minute. First Solar’s  investment is expected to create over 700 new direct manufacturing jobs in Louisiana.  Already believed to be the largest employer in America’s solar manufacturing  sector, with more than 2500 staff across the country, the firm expects to have  over 4000 direct employees in the USA by 2026. Picture: First Solar has  broken ground on its manufacturing facility in Iberia Parish, Louisiana, its  fifth fully vertically integrated factory in the USA: (from left to right) Louisiana  Economic Development’s secretary  John Pierson; First Solar’s  chief manufacturing officer Kuntal  Kumar Verma; First Solar’s chief  people & communications officer Caroline Stockdale; Iberia Parish president M. Larry Richard; Governor of Louisiana John  Bel Edwards; Mark Widmar; First Solar’s CEO John Bel Edwards; First Solar’s chief commercial officer  Georges Antoun; First Solar’s  general counsel & secretary Jason Dymbort; and First Solar’s chief supply chain officer Mike Koralewski. “We are creating  enduring value for the US by building a robust solar manufacturing base and the  value chains that enable it,” says First Solar’s CEO Mark Widmar.  “This delivers jobs and economic value today, and establishes the foundations  needed for the country to enter the next decade with a secure supply of solar energy  technology.” Since the start  of this decade, First Solar has embarked on a $4.1bn manufacturing expansion  strategy that has seen it grow from about 6GW of global nameplate capacity in  2020 to 13GW operational today, with about 12GW of nameplate capacity expected  to come online in the USA and India between second-half 2023 and 2026. In  addition to the Louisiana facility, First Solar commissioned its third  Ohio factory earlier this year and is expected to complete its new facility in  Alabama and the expansion of its existing Ohio footprint in 2024. The firm also  expects its new facility in India to begin commercial production in  fourth-quarter 2023. Additionally, it is investing up to $370m in a dedicated  R&D innovation center in Perrysburg, Ohio, which is expected to be  completed in 2024. Rudolph Libbe Inc  will serve as the general contractor for the project and has already engaged  with Lafayette-headquartered LEMOINE to assist with early site work. The  new facility is expected to create 500 construction jobs in Louisiana over the  next 18 months. 