Infineon providing 1200V CoolSiC MOSFETs for Infypower’s EV charger stations Infineon Technologies AG of Munich, Germany  is providing 1200V CoolSiC  MOSFET power semiconductor devices  to improve the efficiency of electric vehicle  (EV) charging stations made by Infypower of Shenzhen, China. Since being founded  in 2014, Infypower has focused on power electronics  and intelligent control, and provides EV charging modules,  smart energy routers, supercharging  stations, and photovoltaic energy storage  systems. “The collaboration between Infineon and Infypower in the field of  charging solutions for electric vehicles  provides an excellent system-level technology solution for the local EV  charging station industry,” reckons  Dr Peter Wawer, division president of Infineon’s Green Industrial Power Division. “It will significantly  improve charging efficiency,  accelerate charging speed, and  create a better user experience for  owners of electric cars,” he adds. “With Infineon’s more than 20 years  of continuous advancement in SiC product offering and the strength of  integrated technology, Infypower can consolidate and maintain its technological  outstanding position in the industry by adopting state-of-the-art product  processes and design solutions,” comments Qiu Tianquan, president of Infypower  China. “We can also set a new standard for charging efficiency of DC chargers for new energy vehicles.” SiC’s high power density  enables the development of high-performance, lightweight and compact chargers,  especially for supercharging stations and ultra-compact wall-mounted DC charging stations. Compared with  traditional silicon-based solutions, SiC technology in EV charging stations can increase efficiency  by 1%, reducing energy losses and  operating costs. In a 100kW charging station,  this translates to 1kWh of electricity savings, saving €270 annually and reducing carbon emissions by 3.5 tons, and helping to drive the increasing  adoption of SiC power devices in EV charging modules. As one of the first SiC power semiconductor  manufacturers to use trench-gate technology for transistors, Infineon has  introduced a design that provides high reliability for chargers, it is claimed.  Offering a high threshold voltage  and simplified gate driving, the  CoolSiC MOSFET technology has been subjected to marathon stress tests and gate voltage jump stress tests  before commercial release and regularly afterwards in the form of monitoring to  ensure high gate reliability. By integrating Infineon’s 1200V CoolSiC MOSFETs, Infypower’s 30kW  DC charging module is said to offer  a wide constant power range, high  power density, minimal  electromagnetic radiation and interference, high protection performance and  high reliability. It is hence reckoned to be well suited for the fast-charging  demands of most EVs while providing 1% higher efficiency compared with other  solutions on the market. 