Camtek buying FormFactor’s FRT Metrology business for $100m Inspection and 3D metrology equipment maker Camtek Ltd of Migdal Haemek, Israel has agreed to acquire for $100m (subject to customary purchase price adjustments), the FRT  Metrology business of FormFactor Inc of Livermore, CA, USA (a provider of  test & measurement technologies along the full IC life-cycle – from  metrology and inspection, characterization, modeling, reliability, and design  de-bug, to qualification and production test). FRT of Bergisch Gladbach, Germany is a supplier of  high-precision metrology solutions for advanced packaging and  silicon carbide. The acquisition is expected to leverage Camtek’s and  FRT’s advanced technologies for advanced packaging and  silicon carbide, which require new inspection and metrology steps in the  semiconductor manufacturing processes. With the addition of FRT’s unique hybrid multi-sensor SurfaceSens  technology, Camtek will be able to provide broader and more comprehensive  solutions for inspection and metrology. “We expect this acquisition to solidify Camtek’s leading market  position and contribute over $30m to the annual revenues in 2024 and be  accretive within 12 months following the acquisition,” says Camtek’s CEO Rafi  Amit. “We expect further synergies that will contribute to  Camtek’s overall growth prospects in 2024 and beyond,” he adds. “I’m extremely proud of the FRT team’s innovation and growth since  FormFactor’s acquisition of this business in 2019,” comments FormFactor’s CEO Mike  Slessor. “I’m also excited for the opportunity this team has to  leverage Camtek’s established scale and expertise in inspection and metrology  to deliver the next stage of growth from this business,” he adds. “FormFactor  remains committed to developing and providing industry-leading test &  measurement solutions for advanced packaging, helping enable the next phase  of semiconductor innovation in applications like generative AI and  co-packaged optics. We expect this transaction to maximize present and future  FormFactor shareholder value by realizing a robust return on our investment  while allowing us to focus our resources on strategic initiatives and  industry-leading businesses where we have market leadership and significant  scale.” The transaction is expected to close in fourth-quarter 2023,  subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions. 