Automotive semiconductor firm indie acquires EXALOS Automotive semiconductor and software platform provider indie Semiconductor Inc of Aliso Viejo, CA,  USA has acquired privately held  EXALOS AG of Zürich, Switzerland, which was founded in 2003 and designs and manufactures light sources based on  superluminescent light-emitting diodes (SLEDs) and external-cavity tunable lasers  for optical coherence tomography and fiber-optic gyroscopes. Among several products developed and launched for demanding  applications, EXALOS’ field-proven SLEDs for fiber optic  gyroscope and semiconductor optical amplifiers  (SOAs) in particular are backed by 59 global patents and complement indie’s  laser and silicon photonics  products, creating a portfolio targeting rapidly emerging autotech  applications. “EXALOS’ differentiated solutions immediately expand indie’s ADAS [advanced driver assistance systems] and  User Experience product and  technology offering to our global tier-one and automotive OEM customer base,” says indie’s co-founder & CEO  Donald McClymont. “Specifically, indie can now leverage EXALOS’ core  superluminescent LED, and SOA  technologies to enable head-up display  (HUD), high-brightness visible lighting  and inertial measurement unit (IMU)-based navigational applications and,  importantly, to extend our frequency-modulated  continuous wave (FMCW) light  detection and ranging (LiDAR)  portfolio. We are gaining a well-established team of 17 world-class engineers,  including the industry’s leading expertise in bright light sources based on a proprietary gallium nitride process. At a higher level, our  acquisition of EXALOS represents another step in our quest to build a broadline  autotech powerhouse,” he adds. “Given indie’s global sales channels and demonstrated scalability,  I am confident that together we can take our business to the next level,  capitalizing on clear product synergies between us and extending our customer reach while preserving the EXALOS  innovation engine,” says EXALOS’ CEO & founder Christian Velez. Subject to the terms and conditions of the definitive agreement,  indie paid about $45m to EXALOS equity holders,  consisting of 6.6 million indie  Class A common shares. In addition, if certain  revenue-based performance targets are exceeded over a 24-month post-closing  period, there is an opportunity for such holders to earn up to $20m more in  cash or indie Class A common shares, at indie’s election. The transaction has been approved by the boards of directors of  both indie and EXALOS. The acquisition is expected to be financially neutral in  2023 and accretive to indie’s 2024 results. 