Rina Pal-Goetzen Joins SIA as Director of Global Policy by Semiconductor Industry AssociationPal-Goetzen to guide association’s international trade policy agenda, including trade agreements, market access, and emerging market developmentWASHINGTON—March 8, 2022—The Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA) today announced Rina Pal-Goetzen has joined the association as director of global policy. In this role, Pal-Goetzen will work with U.S. and global policymakers and industry stakeholders to advance the association’s international trade policy agenda. SIA represents 99 percent of the U.S. semiconductor industry by revenue and nearly two-thirds of non-U.S. chip firms. “Free and open international trade is a primary driver of growth and innovation in the semiconductor industry,” said John Neuffer, SIA president and CEO. “With a deep background in global trade and a strong understanding of the international policy landscape, Rina Pal-Goetzen will be an outstanding advocate for the semiconductor industry’s trade priorities in Washington and around the world. We’re thrilled to welcome her to the SIA team and look forward to her contributions on behalf of our industry.” Before joining SIA, Rina was General Counsel of 3D printed microTEC in San Francisco, California, the leader in 3D printed chip packaging. She also served as Head of Global Health Policy at Bayer AG in Düsseldorf, Germany, where she worked on market access for the Asia-Pacific region, represented the company to the European Union and at international organizations on trade and health, and led global intellectual property policy. Previously, Rina focused on trade and global intellectual property policy at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, was Director at the George Washington Law School, and started off her career as an intellectual property attorney in California.Rina is a graduate of the University of California, Berkeley, earned an M.Sc. degree at Oxford University, and received a law degree at Arizona State University, College of Law. She is admitted to the bar in the District of Columbia.# # #