New customer orders Aehr FOX-NP multi-wafer test and burn-in system for silicon carbide MOSFETs Semiconductor production test, burn-in and  reliability qualification equipment supplier Aehr Test Systems of Fremont,  CA, USA has received an  initial customer order for a FOX-NP wafer-level test & burn-in system,  multiple WaferPak Contactors, and a FOX WaferPak Aligner to be used for  engineering, qualification and small-lot production wafer-level test &  burn-in of silicon carbide devices. The customer is a US-based multi-billion-dollar semiconductor  supplier serving several markets including automotive, computing, consumer,  energy, industrial and medical applications. The FOX-NP system, including the  FOX WaferPak Aligner and initial WaferPaks, are scheduled to ship by the end of  2023, per the customer’s requested accelerated schedule. The FOX-NP system is configured with the new Bipolar Voltage Channel Module (BVCM) and Very High Voltage  Channel Module (VHVCM) options that enable new advanced test and burn-in  capabilities for silicon carbide  power semiconductors using Aehr’s  proprietary WaferPak full-wafer Contactors. Aehr says that the new order  highlights its continued progression within the growing silicon carbide global power market. “After conducting a detailed financial evaluation and multiple  onsite visits to Aehr’s application lab, this new customer selected our FOX-P  solution for engineering, qualification and production of their silicon carbide power devices. This evaluation included cost of ownership  and system throughput, as well as device test, burn-in and stabilization  coverage,” says president & CEO Gayn Erickson. “As their production  capacity increases, they told us that they will quickly move to our FOX-XP  multi-wafer test & burn-in systems for high-volume production. In addition  to the automotive electric vehicle  device opportunity, this customer in particular sees the enormous opportunity  for silicon carbide power devices in industrial, solar and other  power applications,” he adds. William Blair forecasts that, in addition to the 4.5 million six-inch-equivalent wafers that  will be needed to meet the demand for electric vehicle-related  silicon carbide devices in 2030,  another 2.8 million wafers are  needed to address industrial, solar, electric trains,  energy conversion and other applications in 2030. “Most of these applications  will be served with discrete MOSFETs in single die  packages,” says Erickson. “The cost of ownership of our solution proved to be  more cost-effective and efficient for these devices than package part burn-in after the die are packaged  in packages such as TO-247 or other discrete packages. This is a strong  testimony of the advantage of wafer-level burn-in as a better alternative to  package part burn-in. This expands  our silicon carbide test and burn-in  market even more, and this new customer helps expand Aehr’s presence in this  market as our total addressable market (TAM) continues to grow,” he adds. “Aehr’s FOX-P systems and proprietary WaferPak full wafer  Contactors enable our customers to do economical production volume test and reliability burn-in with  processes such as high-temperature gate bias  (HTGB) and high-temperature reverse bias  (HTRB) very cost-effectively and ensure extremely high device quality,” continues Erickson. “Our  systems are typically used for long burn-in times lasting up to 24 hours or more. We can do this for under  $5 per hour per wafer capital depreciation cost while testing and burning-in up to  several thousand devices at a time per wafer.  This is also in a test system  footprint that is up to 94% less than a typical test system on a standard semiconductor wafer prober, which in a  precious cleanroom wafer facility is  extremely important and saves a great deal of cost.” “The FOX family of compatible systems including the FOX-NP and  FOX-XP multi-wafer test and burn-in systems and Aehr’s proprietary WaferPak  full-wafer contactors provide a uniquely cost-effective solution for burning in  multiple wafers of devices at a single time to remove early life failures of  silicon carbide devices, which is  critical to meeting the initial quality and long-term reliability of the  automotive, industrial and electrification infrastructure industry needs,”  Erickson concludes. 