GlobiTech selects Aixtron’s G10-SiC CVD system for expansion into silicon carbide market Deposition equipment  maker Aixtron SE of Herzogenrath, near Aachen, Germany says that it is  supporting GlobiTech Inc of Sherman, TX, USA, one of  the world’s largest silicon-epitaxy foundries, to expand its business into  silicon carbide (SiC) epitaxy. The new G10-SiC chemical vapor  deposition (CVD) system has enabled GlobiTech to quickly ramp its SiC epitaxy production  into high volume to  address the increasing demand for power epiwafers. Aixtron says that selection of the  G10-SiC means a future-proof investment based on dual wafer-size configuration  of 9x150mm and 6x200mm and what is claimed to be the highest throughput per fab space available  in the SiC industry.  Picture:   The G10-SiC  offers a dual wafer-size configuration of 9x150mm and 6x200mm. Officially introduced in September 2022, Aixtron claims that the G10-SiC has become the  tool of record for both 150mm and 200mm SiC device makers  as well as foundries like GlobiTech, the subsidiary of GlobalWafers Co Ltd,  which manufactures silicon carbide  and silicon epiwafers focused on power and electric vehicle (EV) market segments. GlobalWafers has 17  manufacturing and operation sites in nine countries, including a 200mm  silicon-on-insulator (SOI) wafer  factory in St. Peters, Missouri, and  is in the process of a 300mm SOI expansion to address burgeoning  radio-frequency (RF) applications. “When one of the largest manufacturers and  foundries like GlobiTech diversifies its business, it is a clear signal of a  long-lasting trend in the semiconductor industry: conventional silicon is being  replaced by silicon carbide in an  ever-increasing number of applications,” says Aixtron’s  CEO & president Dr Felix  Grawert. GlobiTech choice of the  G10-SiC as an enabler of its transition into the emerging SiC market “confirms  our overall strategy and the prospects  for further growth,” he believes. GlobiTech is already in high-volume  production using both the G5WW C and  G10-SiC Aixtron systems, with continued  installation capacity over the next years. Modeled after the silicon business,  GlobiTech supplies both SiC substrates and SiC epitaxy to the market. “In Aixtron,  we have found a strong partner supporting us in our vision and plans to expand  our business into the SiC epitaxy market – an important step as SiC technology  is one of the fastest-growing semiconductor sectors,” comments GlobalWafers’ president Mark England.  “Aixtron tools allow us to get the most  wafers out of our current fab. And Aixtron’s team  understands what it takes to compete against silicon to grow this market while  offering great customer support and service,” he adds. The G10-SiC is claimed to be the first SiC  epitaxy tool on the market that enables high-volume production of SiC  epiwafers. Since the G10-SiC offers both 9x150mm and 6x200mm batch  configurations, it is reckoned to be instrumental for a market rapidly  transitioning from 6-inch (150mm) to 8-inch (200 mm) wafer diameters. The new  platform is built around Aixtron’s proven  automated wafer cassette-to-cassette loading solution with high-temperature  wafer transfer. Combined with high-growth-rate process capabilities, the  G10-SiC provides what is claimed to be best-in-class wafer throughput,  excellent epiwafer performance in terms of quality and uniformity, and the best  throughput per square meter of fab space, yielding the lowest cost of ownership  in the market. It is estimated that in 2023 the new G10-SiC will become Aixtron’s top-selling product. 