European Semiconductor Regions Alliance launched On 7 September, the European Committee of the Regions (CoR) in  Brussels, Belgium — in a signing ceremony hosted by the Minister-President of  the Free State of Saxony (Freistaat Sachsen) Michael Kretschmer —  launched the European Semiconductor Regions Alliance (ESRA) as a political network engaged to strengthen  Europe’s capacity to produce semiconductors and microelectronics, reducing its  dependency from supplies from third countries. The Alliance aims to identify and help  remove the obstacles to the industry’s strategic development by: improving the  legal framework; promoting public and private investment; supporting the  sharing of knowledge, best  practices and innovation; fostering  collaboration between regions; and  developing strong and resilient integrated value chains in the  semiconductor industry. A priority is to make the most of the EU  Chips Act and to attract investment. Against the backdrop of Europe’s insufficient semiconductor  resilience, high supply chain sensitivity and high dependence on  semiconductor imports, a package of measures to strengthen the EU’s  semiconductor ecosystem was proposed by the European Commission on  8 February 2022 and approved by the European Parliament on  11 July 2023 and by the EU Council of Ministers on 25 July. The  resultant EU Chips Act is intended to mobilize public and private  investment of up to €43bn. ESRA was initiated on 6 March by Saxony, whose Minister for  Regional Development Thomas  Schmidt is also the European Committee of the Regions’ rapporteur on the  EU Chips Act. “For each segment of the global  semiconductor value chain, it takes on average more than 20  countries involved in the direct supply chain to work closely together,” notes Kretschmer. The  global semiconductor shortage has exposed the dependence of regions and cities  on supply from a limited number of companies and its vulnerability to export  restrictions from third countries and other disruptions in the current  geopolitical context. Europe’s share of the global semiconductor market is  currently 10% by value, far below its economic weight. The EU Chips Act aims to boost market  share to 20% by 2030. ESRA sees itself as a platform of the regions and partner of the  European Commission in the implementation of the EU Chip Act. It wants to make  an active contribution to strengthening Europe as a semiconductor location in  global competition and to promote the competitiveness of the semiconductor  industry in the regions of the European member states as well as in the entire  EU. “With ESRA, we are  opening up new ways for regions to collaborate, research and innovate to ensure  Europe’s economic and digital sovereignty,” says Kretschmer.  Growing European semiconductor manufacturing is expected to secure industrial  production in the EU as a whole and make it more competitive with the USA and  China. “After the adoption of  the European Chips Act, it is now a matter of implementation, of establishing  new production facilities, of strengthening research and of training skilled  workers,” says rapporteur Schmidt. The aim of the alliance is hence to jointly strengthen growth and  increase the competitiveness of the European semiconductor industry through:  The 27 regions (from 12 EU member states, plus Wales) involved  are: Baden-Württemberg, Bavaria, Hamburg, Hesse, Lower Saxony, Saxony,  Saxony-Anhalt, Saarland, Schleswig-Holstein, and Thuringia in Germany;  Andalusia, the Basque Country, Valencia, and Catalonia in Spain; Flevoland  and North Brabant in the Netherlands; Carinthia and Styria in Austria; the  Centro Region in Portugal; Flanders in Belgium; Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes in  France; Piedmont in Italy, Tampere and Helsinki in Finland; South Moravia  in the Czech Republic; Wales in the UK; and the Republic of Ireland. “The participation of many regions in  the launch event underlines the interest in increased cooperation at EU level  in the field of microelectronics,” notes Kretschmer. “The  Alliance will make an important contribution to making Europe competitive in  this key industry in the years to come.” In the jointly signed 10-point paper establishing the ESRA, the  regions state the following objectives to: Among the 27 signatories but outside the EU, Wales is home to CSconnected, the South Wales Compound Semiconductor Cluster. “The Welsh  Government is ambitious for the semiconductor sector in the south-east of Wales  and the objectives of the ESRA align with our  Programme for Government and our Innovation Strategy, published  earlier this year,” notes Vaughan Gething, the Welsh Government’s Minister for  the Economy. “Joining the ESRA will provide new opportunities for Welsh  companies to embed themselves in European supply chains, support  innovation, collaboration and ultimately create a more resilient semiconductor  sector,” he adds. “Europe remains Wales’ closest and most important trading partner,  and our new membership of the European Semiconductor Regional Alliance will  support our International Strategy as we maintain a close and positive  relationship with the European Union,” says Wales’  Representative on Europe Derek Vaughan, who signed the agreement on  behalf of the Welsh Government. 