Mission Microwave launches  1kW Ku-band SSPA/BUC for satellite gateways and teleports Mission  Microwave Technologies LLC of Cypress, CA, USA is introducing a new Ku-band high-power  product during the IBC 2023 event at  the RAI Amsterdam, The Netherlands (15–18 September). Mission Microwave  designs and manufactures a family of gallium nitride  (GaN)-based solid-state power amplifiers  (SSPAs) and block up-converters (BUCs) in support of GEO, MEO and  LEO satellite communications networks. The firm’s signature Stinger, Javelin,  Titan and MOAB BUCs are used globally by gateway and SATCOM terminal customers  in tactical, maritime, in-flight connectivity (IFC) and broadband markets. “Based on our  customers’ success in replacing legacy traveling-wave tube (TWT) amplifiers  with Mission Microwave GaN products, our customers asked us to extend our  compact Ku-band product line to  offer a replacement for complex multi-amplifier combined networks,” says Steve  Richeson, VP of sales & marketing. “The resulting kilowatt-level Ku-band  amplifier in a 68lb package resets  industry expectations for large gateway designs and allows customers to reduce  their system amplifier cost by hundreds of thousands of dollars while  increasing reliability and reducing operating costs,” he adds. Mission  Microwave’s latest Ku-band GaN BUC provides up to 400W of linear power in a  multi-carrier environment, providing an effective replacement for large  combining networks using multiple smaller amplifiers. The amplifier is designed  for outdoor mounting and sustained operation at 60°C. It is designed to be  mounted very close to the antenna feed, further reducing the loss from complex  waveguide paths required for larger solutions. The new 1kW Ku-band version of Mission’s MOAB  SSPA/BUC product line will be  introduced during the IBC Conference along with the signature Stinger, Javelin  and Titan model BUCs that have already captured a leading position in the  satellite ground segment industry,  it is claimed. Mission Microwave  products will also be on display in multiple customer stands across the venue,  incorporated in products in top-tier mobile, maritime and transportable  terminals. 