Longroad adds 2GW order to existing  3.7GW framework agreement with First Solar US-based renewable energy developer, owner and operator Longroad Energy Holdings LLC  has agreed to procure an  additional 2GW of cadmium telluride (CdTe) thin-film photovoltaic  (PV) modules made by First Solar Inc of Tempe, AZ, USA. To be delivered between 2027 and 2029, the  order builds on an existing 3.7GW framework agreement and increases Longroad  Energy’s total procurement of First Solar  modules to about 8GW since 2017. “Longroad  Energy and First Solar share a longstanding partnership that’s based on shared  values and a common vision for a sustainable energy future,” says Longroad  Energy co-founder & chief operating officer Michael Alvarez. “By  expanding our procurement of First Solar’s advanced thin-film technology,  we are extending our commitment to responsibly produced renewable energy  technologies and to American solar manufacturing and domestic value chains.” First Solar  claims that its PV modules have the lowest carbon and water footprint of any  commercially available PV module currently, and that it is the first PV  manufacturer to have its product included in the Electronic Product  Environmental Assessment Tool (EPEAT) global registry for sustainable  electronics. First Solar  is the only one of the world’s ten largest solar manufacturers to be a member  of the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA), the world’s largest industry  coalition dedicated to supporting the rights and well-being of workers and communities  in the global supply chain, and the firm says that it has zero tolerance  for forced labor in its manufacturing or its supply chains. First Solar believes it is first to have conducted third-party social  audits across its operational global manufacturing footprint. “Our ability  to deliver certainty of pricing and supply, domestic manufacturing and supply chains,  and a responsibly made solar module optimized for energy provides the  value customers, such as Longroad, seek,” reckons First Solar’s chief  commercial officer Georges Antoun. “We look forward to growing this  partnership.” Since the start of this decade, First Solar has  embarked on a manufacturing expansion strategy that has seen it grow from about  6GW of global operational nameplate capacity in 2020 to 13GW now, with  further expansion expected to increase that to 25GW in 2026. First Solar  commissioned its third Ohio factory earlier this year and is expected to  complete a new facility in Alabama and the expansion of its existing Ohio  footprint in 2024. The firm has also announced that it will complete a fifth US  facility, to be located in Louisiana, in first-half 2026. Additionally, it is  investing up to $370m in a dedicated R&D innovation center in Perrysburg,  Ohio, to be completed next year. 