KERI transfers SiC power semiconductor ion implantation evaluation technology to Hungary’s SEMILAB Korea Electrotechnology  Research Institute (KERI) — which is funded under the National Research  Council of Science & Technology (NST)  of South Korea’s Ministry of Science and ICT — has transferred ion implantation  and evaluation technology for silicon carbide (SiC) power semiconductors  to metrology equipment firm SEMILAB ZRT of Budapest, Hungary. While SiC power semiconductors have many  advantages, the manufacturing process is very challenging. Previously, the  method was to create a device by forming an epitaxial layer on a highly  conductive wafer and flowing current through that area. However, during this  process, the surface of the epilayer becomes rough and the speed of electron  transfer decreases. The price of the epiwafer itself is also high, which is a  major obstacle to mass production. To solve this problem, KERI used a method  of implanting ions into a semi-insulating SiC wafer without an epilayer in  order to make the wafer conductive. Since SiC materials are hard, they require  very high-energy ion implantation followed by high-temperature heat treatment  to activate the ions, making it a difficult technology to implement. However,  KERI says that, based on its 10 years of experience in operating ion implantation  equipment dedicated to SiC, it has succeeded in establishing the relevant  technologies.  Picture:   Second from left, Dr Bahng Wook, executive director of KERI’s Power Semiconductor Research Division; third from  the left, Park Su-yong, CEO of Semilab Korea Co Ltd. “Ion implantation technology can  significantly reduce process costs by increasing current flow in  semiconductor devices and replacing expensive epiwafers,” says Dr Kim  Hyoung Woo, director, Advanced Semiconductor Research Center, KERI. “This  is a technology that increases the price competitiveness of high-performance  SiC power semiconductors and contributes greatly to mass production.” The technology was recently transferred to  SEMILAB, which has manufacturing plants in Hungary and the USA. With a 30-year  history, SEMILAB owns patents for medium-sized precision measurement  equipment and material characterization equipment, and possesses  technology for semiconductor electrical parameter evaluation systems.  Picture: Semi-insulating SiC wafer. The firms expect that, through the  technology transfer, they will be able to standardize high-quality SiC. SEMILAB  plans to use KERI’s technology to develop specialized equipment to evaluate the  ion implantation process for SiC power semiconductors. “Through the  development of specialized equipment, we will be able to progress in-line  monitoring of implant processes on SiC wafers for immediate, accurate and  low-cost production control of implant systems and in-line monitoring for pre-anneal  implant,” says Park Su-yong, president of SEMILAB Korea. “This will be a  great foundation for stably securing a high-quality ion implantation  mass-production process with excellent uniformity and reproducibility.” 