Fabricating 330ppi monolithic GaInN RGB pixels Meijo University in Japan and King Abdullah  University of Science and Technology (KAUST) in Saudi Arabia  report on a monolithic stacked red–green–blue (RGB) gallium indium nitride (GaInN)  micro-light-emitting diode ( μLED) array with 330 pixel per inch (ppi) density [Tatsunari Saito et al, Appl. Phys. Express, v16, p084001,  2023]. The researchers see the potential for use  of such devices in “head-mounted displays and smart glasses for virtual reality, augmented reality and mixed reality”. The  micron-level pixels needed for such displays would appear to preclude the use  of mechanical assembly techniques, and necessitate the use of monolithic  fabrication. Although GaInN-based LEDs have suffered  from severe efficiency problems for longer wavelengths, towards the red end of  the visible spectrum there has been recent progress in this area. Further, red  GaInN LEDs suffer less from impacts on  efficiency from scaling to the smaller device sizes of  μLEDs than the usual red LED material,  aluminium gallium indium phosphide (AlGaInP). Metal-organic vapor phase epitaxy (MOVPE)  was used in two stages to grow the material for the RGB  μLED arrays on GaN substrates (Figure 1). First, the blue and green layers were grown at Meijo, while the  final red stage was produced at KAUST. The RGB  layers were separated by tunnel junctions (TJs).  Figure 1: Schematic cross-section of LED  multiple stacked structure. The red layers were somewhat more involved  than the relatively standard blue and green layers. The latter used 2-period  multiple quantum wells with suitable-indium-content  GaInN alloys. The red layers included a superlattice, and  red and blue single quantum wells (SQWs). The researchers comment: “The blue GaInN superlattice  and GaInN SQW inserted between the n-type GaN layer and the active layer in the  red LED structure play a role in improving the emission efficiency of  the red LED.” The researchers point out that the GaN  substrate used was very expensive, and for production it would be necessary to  move to a less expensive material, likely sapphire.  