ams OSRAM providing sub-assembled RGB laser diodes to TriLite A technology  collaboration has been announced in which ams OSRAM GmbH of Premstätten,  Austria and Munich, Germany will provide sub-assembled RGB laser diodes  to ‘light up’ the Trixel 3 laser beam scanner (LBS) of TriLite  of Vienna, Austria. Claimed to be the  world’s smallest projection display, the Trixel 3 LBS provides compactness  and light weight, as a bright and accurate display. It has ultra-low  power consumption (<320mW) for all-day use, and full color support  (>200% over sRGB) for excellent image quality. Trixel 3 enables  augmented reality (AR) solutions for smart glasses and a wide range  of consumer applications. “Our ecosystem  strategy focusses on partnering with world leaders to ensure top quality and  reliable mass manufacturing,” says TriLite’ CEO Dr Peter Weigand. “We  chose ams OSRAM as one of our technology partners due to its laser light  sources’ class-leading power and efficiency, which perfectly align with the  brightness, contrast and high-performance requirements of our Trixel 3 LBS  projector,” he adds. “Trixel 3’s  compact design paves the way for widespread adoption of ‘always-on’ consumer AR glasses,”  comments Dr Jörg Strauss, senior VP & general manager of the  Visualization & Sensing business line at ams OSRAM. “ams OSRAM’s  laser diodes offer the key specifications essential for achieving the  small form factor of Trixel 3.” TriLite says that  it designs for seamless mass manufacturing, incorporating customized  standard components and utilizing high-volume production equipment. The result  is an ultra-compact optical display engine with a brightness of 15 lumens,  ensuring readability even in direct sunlight. Its low system latency  allows AR images to blend naturally with the wearer’s surroundings and  movements, providing immersive AR. Furthermore, Trixel 3 is fully  compatible with state-of-the-art waveguides without requiring any relay optics,  effectively saving space and reducing weight. 