AlixLabs raises SEK40m to industrialize Atomic Layer Etching Pitch Splitting nanofabrication technique AlixLabs AB of Lund, Sweden, which has  developed an Atomic Layer Etching (ALE) Pitch Splitting technology (APS), has secured SEK40m in funding from investors including Navigare  Ventures, Industrifonden, and FORWARD.one. AlixLabs says that its ALE Pitch Splitting technology enables  the precise division of nanostructures and hence a  high degree of packing semiconductor components. This eliminates several steps  in the manufacturing process, and significantly reduces energy consumption  and emissions, addressing the rising costs associated with existing  semiconductor manufacturing techniques. “The infusion of capital  not only validates our vision but also empowers us to bring our groundbreaking  technology to the forefront of semiconductor manufacturing,” says CEO Jonas Sundqvist.  “This investment marks a significant milestone as we work towards our goal: to  have our meticulously developed process adopted by circuit manufacturers in  their most advanced production by 2025.” AlixLabs reckons that its innovation comes at an opportune moment,  with the European Union’s Chips Act allocating more than €43bn for semiconductor companies over the next five years. “AlixLabs has taken  considerable steps in establishing itself as an emerging equipment  manufacturer, contributing to the fast-growing European semiconductor  industry,” comments Navigare Ventures’ investment manager Alex Basu. “We  look forward to a continued partnership as they bring their technology to  production in the coming years,” he adds. “At Industrifonden, we  are committed to science-backed, scalable investments that have the power to  drive meaningful change in society,” states senior investment director Tobias Elmquist.  “AlixLabs is redefining semiconductor manufacturing and we're proud to support  them on their journey towards a more efficient and sustainable industry,” he  adds. “The technology that  AlixLabs has developed solves real problems for its semiconductor customers and  adds a lot of value for them by reducing the complexity of making chips and  making the process much cheaper while reducing the environmental impact of the  process significantly,” comments FORWARD.one partner Arjan Göbel. 