Volvo invests in Chinese SiC-based power module maker Leadrive Volvo Cars Tech Fund, the corporate venture capital  arm of Sweden-based Volvo Cars, has invested in Leadrive Technology of  Shanghai, China, which was founded  in 2017 and manufactures  power electronics and  control units for electric cars, specializing in designing and building  power modules that use silicon carbide (SiC). “Leadrive’s technology demonstrates a  lot of potential for the development of more efficient electric drivetrains,” comments Volvo Cars Tech Fund’s  CEO Alexander Petrofski. “That potential closely aligns with our own focus on  electrification.” Volvo aims to become a fully electric car maker by 2030 and  to be a climate-neutral company by 2040. “Volvo Cars and Leadrive have been  working very closely on the development of new-generation SiC technologies,  which has built a firm stairway towards the strategic collaboration,” says Leadrive’s  founder & CEO Jie Shen. “This is a great milestone in  Leadrive’s global strategy and demonstrates the huge potential of our  cooperation in advanced electrification technology,” he adds. Focused on vertical integration to gain control over its  electrification technology, Volvo says that its roadmap entails collaborating  with relevant partners where it makes sense. It says that it has hence doubled  down on critical technology investments in recent years and made key decisions  on what it builds versus what it buys, for example by bringing the development  and manufacturing of e-motors and inverters in-house while also developing its  own battery management software. In addition, it is investing in the  development and production of its own battery packs through Novo Energy,  its joint venture with Northvolt, optimizing battery chemistry and  integration in its cars. “Together, these investments in batteries, e-motors, inverters  and battery management software allow us to control the entire electrical  propulsion system in our fully electric cars,” says Volvo. “By working with  firms like Leadrive, we can broaden our knowledge base and explore new  exciting technologies,” it adds. “We started our Volvo Cars Tech Fund in 2018 to invest  in companies and technology areas that transform the automotive industry, such  as artificial intelligence, electrification, autonomous driving,  sustainability and digital commerce,” says the firm. “The Tech Fund  makes strategic investments to help start-ups to thrive and jointly accelerate  the transformation of the global mobility industry.” This latest investment by Volvo Cars Tech Fund is part  of a new funding round by Leadrive, giving the Tech Fund a small minority  stake in the firm. 