Shin-Etsu Chemical launches QST substrates for GaN power device growth Shin-Etsu Chemical Co Ltd of Tokyo, Japan has announced  the market launch of QST (Qromis Substrate Technology) — a composite material  substrate licensed in 2019 exclusively from Qromis Inc of Santa Clara,  CA, USA — for the growth of gallium nitride (GaN) power devices. Since QST substrate is designed to have the same coefficient of  thermal expansion (CTE) as GaN, it enables suppression of warpage and  cracking of the GaN epitaxial layer and can hence enable large-diameter,  high-quality thick GaN epitaxial growth. It is hence expected to be  applied to power devices and RF devices (5G and beyond 5G),  which have been growing rapidly in recent years, as well as to micro-LED growth  for micro-LED displays. In addition to selling QST substrates, Shin-Etsu Chemical will  also sell GaN grown QST substrates upon customer request. The firm  currently has a line-up of 6”- and 8”-diameter substrates, and it is working on  12”-diameter substrates. Since 2021, for each respective application for power devices,  RF devices and LEDs, sample evaluation and device development has been  progressing with numerous customers in Japan and globally. Especially for power devices,  continuous evaluation is underway for devices in the wide range of 650-1800V.  Shin-Etsu Chemical says that it has progressively made many  improvements to QST substrates. An example is the significant reduction in  defect density originating from the bonding process, enabling the supply of  high-quality QST substrates. In addition, for the thicker GaN films that many  customers have requested, the firm has promoted the provision of template  substrates with optimized buffer layers, enabling customers to realize stable  epitaxial growth of more than 10μm thickness. Furthermore, various results have  been reported, including thick-film GaN growth exceeding 20μm using QST  substrates and the achievement of 1800V breakdown voltage in power devices. Moreover, Shin-Etsu Chemical and Oki Electric Industry Co Ltd  have jointly developed technology for exfoliating GaN from QST substrates and  bonding it to substrates made of different materials using Oki’s Crystal Film  Bonding (CFB) technology. Up to now, most GaN power devices have been  lateral devices, but CFB technology takes advantage of the characteristics of  QST substrates to realize vertical power devices that can control large  currents by exfoliating a thick layer of high-quality GaN from an insulating  QST substrate. For customers that are manufacturing GaN devices, Shin-Etsu  Chemical will provide QST substrates or GaN grown QST substrates and Oki  Electric Industry will provide its CFB technology through partnering or  licensing. The two firms hence hope to contribute to the advancement of  vertical power devices. Shin-Etsu Chemical is giving a presentation on progress in QST product  development at SEMICON Taiwan 2023 in Taipei (6–8 September). 