Smartphone production falls 6.6% year-on-year to 272 million in Q2; first-half 2023 down 13.3% After plunging by a record 19.5% year-on-year in first-quarter  2023, global smartphone production saw a second consecutive quarterly decline  in Q2/2023, falling by about 6.6% year-on-year to 272 million units,  according to market research firm TrendForce. First-half 2023  production was 522 million units, down 13.3%  year-on-year. This represents a ten-year low for both individual quarters and  the first half of the year.  TrendForce identifies three key reasons  behind this slump in production: Transsion overtakes Vivo to enter top five; Q2 production surges  by over 70% In a dramatic shake-up of global rankings, Transsion (including  TECNO, Infinix, and itel) eclipsed Vivo to secure the fifth spot for the first  time. Transsion’s high production output benefited from a  trifecta of inventory replenishment, new product launches, and its entry into  mid-to-high end-markets, notes TrendForce. Demonstrating robust production  performance since March, the firm’s growth trajectory is poised to extend its  momentum into Q3/2023. Meanwhile, Vivo (including Vivo and iQoo) is treading  cautiously amid a sluggish global economy, which is evident in its conservative  production plan: Vivo produced 23 million units in Q2 — a modest  quarterly increase of 15% — and hence slipped to sixth place in the global  rankings. Samsung continues to lead in production rankings, delivering 53.9 million  units in Q2. However, it suffered a 12.4% quarter-to-quarter downturn. Amid  global economic headwinds and fierce competition, coupled with a waning halo  effect from its flagship phone releases earlier in the year, Samsung’s Q2  performance lagged behind the same period last year. Although Samsung is set to  roll out new foldable models in Q3, the impact on its overall growth is  expected to be marginal, given the relatively low sales volume  compared with its Galaxy S series. Apple’s Q2 is typically the weakest quarter in terms of  production, due to its transition between older and newer models. Output fell  by 21.2% quarter-to-quarter to 42 million units  in Q2/2023. The upcoming iPhone 15/15 Plus  could face headwinds due to suboptimal yields in its CMOS image sensors,  potentially impacting its Q3 production performance. Intriguingly, Apple and  Samsung are neck-and-neck in their annual production projections. Should the  iPhone 15  series outperform market expectations, Apple stands a good chance of ousting  Samsung from its long-held position as the global market leader, reckons  TrendForce. Xiaomi (including Xiaomi, Redmi, and POCO) produced 35 million  units in Q2 — a staggering seasonal uptick of 32.1%. This boom can be  attributed to a strategic depletion of channel inventory coupled with  the allure of new product launches. However, Xiaomi’s channel inventory still  runs high, setting the stage for a Q3 that is likely to mirror its Q2  performance. On the other side of the spectrum, Oppo (including Oppo, Real, and  OnePlus) primarily rode the wave of rebounding demand in Southeast Asia  and other regions in Q2, so production was about 33.6 million  units — marking a seasonal leap of 25.4%. With seasonal demands on the horizon,  Oppo’s Q3 production is poised for estimated growth of 10–15%,  primarily targeting markets in China, South Asia, Southeast Asia,  and Latin America,  hot on Xiaomi’s heels. Demand in consumer markets such as China, Europe and North America  has not shown a significant rebound as we move into second-half 2023. Even if  economic indicators in the Indian market improve, it is still difficult to  reverse the global decline in smartphone production. TrendForce says that the  smartphone market may have undergone another shift in Q2 this year due to poor  global economic conditions, so production for second-half 2023 may consequently  be further reduced. Looking ahead to 2024, the current economic outlook is not  optimistic. TrendForce maintains its forecast of an annual increase in global  production of just 2–3%, depending on regional economic trends.  Whether this will further drag down production remains to be seen. 