Vector evaluating Sivers’ InP100 epi for surface-coupling laser project IC and integrated module supplier Sivers  Semiconductors AB of Kista, Sweden says  that its subsidiary Sivers Photonics of Glasgow, Scotland, UK has received an initial order from Vector Photonics Ltd  (which was spun off from the University of Glasgow in 2020) for the evaluation of epitaxial material — manufactured on Sivers’  InP100 platform — for a new, next-generation surface-coupling laser  project. The order, which  includes laser fabrication and life testing, will be the first time that  both Glasgow-based companies have worked together on a collaborative project.  The collaboration with Sivers Photonics means that the project will be  fulfilled entirely within the Scottish photonics cluster. “Vector Photonics operates a ‘fabless’ business model, outsourcing  wafer fabrication to semiconductor foundry partners around the world,” notes Vector’s  sales & marketing director Euan Livingston. “Sivers Photonics is an ideal  fabrication partner for Vector Photonics in every aspect. Furthermore, the  proximate location of the businesses supports a particularly close working  relationship, with clear benefits to in-depth development and R&D working.” “Vector Photonics’ fabless business model is established and  proven for prototype, pre-production and production requirements and volumes.  It builds resilience, flexibility and scalability into our supply chain; allows  for rapid scaling; and frees up the company to focus on developing high-value  application IP in datacoms and wider markets,” Livingston continues. “The order  with Sivers Photonics helps to establish the required quality and life testing  of our laser materials and is a significant part of our ongoing  commercialization of surface-coupling laser devices,” he adds. “We are delighted to partner with Vector Photonics on this  project, using our expertise to support the commercialization of  next-generation surface-coupling lasers whilst also continuing to strengthen  Scotland’s strong position as a global leader in photonics,” says Andy McKee,  chief technology officer & interim managing director  at Sivers Photonics. “Following the successful wafer fabrication and testing  phases and utilizing our proven foundry capabilities, we will enable Vector  Photonics to deliver to their customers at scale,” he adds. “Surface-coupling lasers offer great performance by reducing power  consumption, latency, size and costs and will be a great solution for the  data-center market,” reckons Sivers Semiconductors’ CEO Anders Storm. 