ROHM launches power-stage ICs with built-in 650V GaN HEMTs and gate driver Japan-based power semiconductor maker  ROHM Co Ltd has  developed the BM3G0xxMUV-LB series of EcoGaN  power-stage ICs with built-in  650V gallium nitride (GaN)  high-electron-mobility transistors (HEMTs) and gate driver, optimized for primary power supplies (AC-DC, PFC circuits) inside industrial  applications (such as data servers  and office automation devices) and  consumer applications (such as home appliances,  AC adapters, PCs, TVs,  refrigerators, and air-conditioners).  In the interests of sustainability, the consumer and industrial  sectors are increasingly demanding greater energy savings. However, while GaN  HEMTs are expected to significantly contribute to greater miniaturization and  improved power conversion efficiency, the difficulty in handling the gate  compared to silicon MOSFETs requires the use of a dedicated gate driver. In  response, ROHM has developed power-stage ICs that integrate GaN HEMTs and  gate drivers into a single package by leveraging core power and analog  technologies, considerably facilitating mounting (see Figure 2).  The BM3G0xxMUV-LB series (BM3G015MUV-LB, BM3G007MUV-LB) also  incorporates additional functions and peripheral components designed to  maximize GaN HEMT performance along with 650V GaN HEMTs (see  Figure 3).  In addition, ROHM’s features such as a wide drive voltage  range (2.5V to 30V), short propagation delay,  and fast start-up time enable  compatibility with virtually any controller IC in primary  power supplies, facilitating the replacement of existing silicon  (super-junction) MOSFETs. This makes it possible to simultaneously reduce  component volume and power loss by about 99% and 55%, respectively,  achieving higher efficiency in a smaller size (see Figure 4).  “GaN devices are attracting a great deal of attention in the  industries as a device that greatly contributes to the miniaturization and  energy saving of equipment,” notes Isaac Lin, general manager, PSADC (Power  Semiconductor Applications Development Center), at Delta Electronics Inc. “ROHM’s new products have  realized high speed and safe gate drive by using ROHM’s original analog  technology,” he comments. “These products will further promote the use of GaN  power devices.” Products and evaluation boards BM3G007MUV-EVK-002 (PFC 240W),  BM3G007MUV-EVK-003 and BM3G015MUV-EVK-003 will be offered at online  distributors DigiKey, Mouser and Farnell as they become available. 