POET and JV partner SPX demonstrating 800G OSFP optical transceivers at CIOE In booth #11C63at  the 24th China International Optoelectronics Expo (CIOE 2023) in Shenzhen (6–8 September), POET Technologies Inc of  Toronto, Ontario, Canada — designer and developer of the POET Optical Interposer,  photonic integrated circuits (PICs) and light sources for the data-center,  telecom and artificial intelligence (AI) markets — is giving live demonstrations of end-to-end  optical solutions for 800G, 400G and 200G optical transceivers using its highly  integrated optical engines. Specifically, in cooperation with one of its lead customers  Luxshare-ICT, POET — along with its  joint venture partner Super Photonics Xiamen (SPX) — is showcasing a live demonstration of the  performance of Luxshare’s 800G OSFP transceiver that incorporates POET’s 800G  Rx optical engine. POET and SPX are presenting  additional live demonstrations of optical engines for 800G, 400G and 200G transceivers operating over a  wide temperature range and  2-10km of single-mode fiber transmission. The demonstrations of linked optical engines on both the transmit and receive  ends of the fiber are said to highlight the end-to-end performance and product  readiness of POET’s optical engines  and allow customers to experience the simplicity and compact design of the  products.  Picture: POET’s prototype  400G transceiver module. POET is also presenting a live demonstration of its own  prototype 400G transceiver module in a QSFP-DD package, complete with a POET Infinity chiplet, a 400G Rx optical engine with integrated TIA, a digital signal processor (DSP),  TEC controller, fiber attach and housing. Also on display are  a mechanical sample of POET’s own 800G transceiver module with two POET Infinity  chiplets, an 800G Rx optical engine  with integrated TIA, and an  800G DSP in a QSFP-DD package, scalable to 1.6T in an OSFP package. “We are already seeing significant customer interest to test and  use our engines in transceivers from 100G to 800G and even 1.6T speeds,” says  Dr Mo Jinyu, senior VP/general manager of POET Asia. “The live demos at CIOE will help further boost customer  confidence in our one-of-a-kind approach to photonics integration, the  superior, real-time performance of our optical engines and reliability of POET’s products that are assembled  and sold in China by SPX,” he adds. Mo is also be speaking about POET’s products and innovations at  the collocated ICCSZ Conference on 5 September. 