SweGaN gains former Ericsson CEO as senior advisor SweGaN AB of  Linköping, Sweden, which develops  and manufactures custom gallium nitride on silicon carbide (GaN-on-SiC) epitaxial wafers (based on a unique growth  technology) for telecom, satellite communications, defense and power electronics applications, says  that former Ericsson CEO Sven-Christer  Nilsson – who is an investor and board member in leading tech companies – has joined it as a senior advisor. Known for his strategic  leadership abilities in high-tech industries, Nilsson is currently on several  boards, including signal processing, sensor fusion and artificial intelligence (AI) processing firm CEVA Inc.  Previously roles include: president & CEO of the Ericsson Group, chairman of the Swedish National Defense Materiel Administration,  chairman of Swedish ICT Research AB, and chairman of The Public Service  Broadcasting Foundation. He also served on the board of directors of telecom  operators Sprint Inc and Telia AB. Nilsson is a member of The Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences and The Royal Swedish Academy of War Sciences. “With significant interest in our  GaN-on-SiC epitaxial solutions for RF and power components, SweGaN is on a  strong trajectory to become a major player in the global GaN markets,” reckons  the firm’s CEO & co-founder Jr-Tai Chen PhD. “Tapping Sven-Christer’s  extensive leadership and vast network, we believe he will add significant value  and insights to our growth strategy.” Following an investment round in  third-quarter 2022 led by global semiconductor investors and strategic partners  and spurred by what is described as significant interest in volume orders from  major customers, in early March SweGaN announced the construction of a new  production facility in Linköping. The  firm’s strategy is closely aligned with the accelerated global demands for  GaN-on-SiC epiwafers used in 5G telecoms infrastructure, satellite  communications and high-voltage power for devices such as electric vehicles  (EVs). ”As the European Union signals the need  for developing a robust European semiconductor supply chain, SweGaN is  poised to play a critical role in this eco-system,” comments Nilsson. “SweGaN  has a strong vision aimed at building a competitive and sustainable  semiconductor company with their benchmark technology and continuous  innovation,” he adds. “I look forward to contributing to and being part of the  SweGaN journey for this exciting yet geopolitically dynamic semiconductor era.” 