Comptek secures €8m in Series A funding round Comptek Solutions Oy of Turku,  Finland (which specializes in III-V  compound semiconductor quantum  surface engineering) has  closed its Series A funding round, consisting of an €8m equity investment  with the participation of a key strategic partner in the consumer electronics  industry, the Horizon Europe European  Innovation Council (EIC) Fund,  and Italian venture capital firm LIFTT S.p.A., which is focused on  early-stage investments in startups and SMEs with high growth impact and ESG. Complementing the €2.45m grant awarded in 2022 by the EIC  Accelerator, the involvement of the new investor group should provide support  in areas such as scale-up growth, advancing its technological innovation  progress, and accelerating the pace of industrialization and implementation of  its technology for next-generation applications in optoelectronics and power electronics. The Series A funding round extends beyond the inaugural  seed-funding efforts, which oversaw the firm’s technology development and  execution of its business model and market-entry strategy worldwide. Founded in 2017 by chief technology officer Jouko Lång and  chief executive officer Vicente Calvo Alonso, Comptek Solutions was  spun out of the University of Turku, where its core technology Kontrox was  developed by Lång together with other material scientists and semiconductor  engineering researchers who constitute the firm’s core R&D team to-date. Kontrox tackles the problem of native oxidation in compound semiconductors, enabling improvements in the  power efficiency of  semiconductor components and optimizing their manufacturing processes.  Picture:   Comptek Solutions' founders CTO Jouko Lång (left) and CEO Vicente  Calvo Alonso (right). 

  “Comptek Solutions has proven to be a leading innovator in the  rapidly growing market for compound semiconductor devices with the unique  passivation technology they have,” comments EIC Fund board chair  Svetoslava Georgieva. “We are pleased to support Comptek’s journey as they  bring disruptive solutions to fill the gap in the market on a global scale.  Their technology can be instrumental in faster adoption of crucial technologies  such as 5G/6G communications, AR/VR, mobility, IoT, and quantum computing,” she  adds. “Passivation is an essential factor of advanced optoelectronic  chip manufacturing, and Comptek Solutions is a key driver in this crucial  niche,” comments LIFTT’s project manager Pierluigi Freni. “Their solution  disrupts the value chain by introducing a novel processing technology that  enables unprecedented levels of chip efficiency and helps to significantly  reduce production costs,” he adds. “Closing this investment round is a very important stepstone in  our path towards wider market entry and scale-up of the company,” says Vicente  Calvo Alonso. “In these first years, despite limited resources, we have made  crucial developments to validate our technology and its fit into important  semiconductor applications such as optoelectronics and power electronics.  Thanks to our commitment to continued R&D excellence and creating value for  customers through our technology and innovation, we have generated a solid  customer base and are now set to roll out our first full turnkey solutions  for passivation of edge-emitting lasers using the company’s proprietary  passivation technique and custom-built equipment,” he adds. “With the proceeds  from this recent financing round, we will accelerate the growth of our team and  technology portfolio to provide the most efficient passivation solutions for  other core fields of applications such as power electronics, where key  European manufacturers have already committed to collaborating with us.” 