CVD Equipment appoints Ashraf Lotfi to board CVD Equipment Corp of Central Islip, NY, USA (a designer and maker of chemical vapor deposition, physical vapor transport, gas and chemical delivery control systems, and other equipment and process solutions for  developing and manufacturing materials and coatings) has appointed Dr Ashraf  Lotfi to its board of directors, which has also approved an expansion of the  number of directors from the current level of five to six. “His extensive semiconductor and power electronics device  industry expertise, and proven track record of bringing innovative technologies  to market, will be invaluable as we execute our core strategy focused on  the ‘electrification of everything’,” comments chairman  Lawrence J. Waldman. Lotfi is currently a venture partner with Deep Sciences  Ventures and serves on the board of Lotus Microsystems ApS. He previously  served as VP and a Fellow at Intel Corp. Prior to Intel, he was power  chief technology officer for Altera Corp, serving its Enpirion Power  Business as well as the broader field-programmable gate array community.  Altera was acquired by Intel in 2015. Prior to Altera, he served as president  & CEO of Enpirion Inc, which he founded in 2002. From Enpirion’s inception, Lotfi led its strategic direction with  what is reckoned to be a unique industry‐first vision to create the ultimate  power converter‐on‐chip, creating ubiquitous DC‐DC conversion at the  silicon level. In 2013, he led Enpirion’s merger into Altera to realize his  vision of highly integrated power management closely coupled to digital silicon  loads. Prior to founding Enpirion, he was director of Advanced Power  Research at Bell Laboratories. “His in-depth knowledge of the power electronics market and  his track record of scaling the Enpirion Power Business will allow him to  immediately contribute to our management team and board of directors as we  pursue the pipeline of customer opportunities in our key strategic markets of  high-power electronics, battery materials/energy storage and  aerospace & defense,” comments CVD Equipment’s president & CEO  Manny Lakios. “Its long history and solid IP capabilities, particularly in  silicon carbide, the essential enabling technology for electrification,  form a strong basis for continued growth and participation in critical parts of  vital applications and growth markets,” comments Lotfi about CVD Equipment. 