Wolfspeed selling RF business to MACOM for $125m Wolfspeed Inc of Durham, NC, USA — which makes silicon carbide  materials as well as silicon carbide (SiC) and gallium nitride (GaN)  power-switching & RF semiconductor devices — has agreed to sell its radio frequency  business (Wolfspeed RF) to MACOM Technology Solutions Inc of Lowell,  MA, USA (which designs and makes RF, microwave, analog and mixed-signal and  optical semiconductor technologies) for about $75m in cash (subject to a customary purchase price adjustment) plus 711,528 shares of MACOM common stock, valued at $50m based on its 30 trading day  average through 21 August. “Given the  significant growth we’ve seen in automotive, industrial and renewable energy markets, we believe this is the  right time to further focus on scaling our Power device  and materials businesses to meet this accelerated demand,” says Wolfspeed’s president  & CEO Gregg Lowe. “This transaction also represents a tremendous  opportunity for our RF team to grow  and operate at scale, leveraging MACOM’s diverse customer base, RF engineering  leadership and operational efficiencies.” As well as its  product development pipeline, Wolfspeed RF  has expertise supporting a gallium nitride  (GaN) on silicon carbide product portfolio optimized for next-generation  telecommunications infrastructure, military and other commercial applications. Serving a broad customer base of aerospace, defense,  industrial and telecommunications customers, Wolfspeed RF most  recently generated annualized revenue of about $150m. Leveraging MACOM’s  diverse customer base and  operational expertise, Wolfspeed RF  is reckoned to be well positioned to continue to deliver products at scale. “The RF team’s engineering capabilities, technology and products are a  perfect fit with MACOM and our strategy,” comments MACOM’s president & CEO  Stephen G. Daly. MACOM will  assume control of Wolfspeed’s 100mm GaN  wafer fabrication facility in Research Triangle  Park, North Carolina (the RTP Fab) approximately two years after closing the transaction to  accommodate Wolfspeed’s relocation of certain production equipment. Prior to  that, the shares of MACOM’s stock that Wolfspeed receives at closing will be  subject to restrictions on transfer. The acquisition also includes design teams and associated  product development assets in Arizona, California and North Carolina,  as well as back-end production capabilities in California and Malaysia. In  addition, MACOM will be assigned or licensed an intellectual property  portfolio including more than 1400 patents associated with the  RF business. A workforce of about 280 is expected to join MACOM at closing, with  additional employees joining when the RTP Fab conveys. Subject to the  expiration of the waiting period  under the Hart–Scott–Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 (HSR) and satisfaction of  customary closing conditions, the  transaction is expected to close by the end of 2023. The acquisition is expected to be immediately accretive to MACOM’s  non-GAAP earnings. Based on the  agreement to sell Wolfspeed RF, the  operations of the RF business will  be classified as discontinued operations. Wolfspeed is hence updating its  guidance to reflect continuing operations only. For fiscal  first-quarter 2024 (to end-September),  Wolfspeed targets revenue from continuing operations of $185–205m  (compared with $220–240m previously). Non-GAAP net  loss from continuing operations remains unchanged from 16 August’s business outlook of $75–94m  ($0.60–0.75 per diluted share). This excludes $63–69m  of estimated expenses (net of tax) related to stock-based compensation expense,  amortization of debt issuance costs,  net of capitalized interest, project, transformation and transaction costs and  loss on Wafer Supply Agreement. 