US DOE renews funding for PowerAmerica Institute The US  Department of Energy (DOE)’s Advanced Materials and Manufacturing Technologies  Office (AMMTO) has announced renewed funding for PowerAmerica,  a public–private research initiative established in 2014 that is the DOE’s  first Clean Energy Manufacturing Innovation Institute. PowerAmerica  will receive an initial $8m, with potential funding across four more fiscal  years to follow, to continue advancing domestic manufacturing of wide-bandgap (WBG) semiconductors  for power electronics to aid economy-wide decarbonization and  electrification. WBG  semiconductors enable power electronics that are used in a range of  applications — including industrial equipment, data centers, consumer devices,  and electric vehicles. Silicon carbide (SiC) and gallium nitride  (GaN) WBG semiconductor technology makes the power electronic modules  significantly more powerful and energy efficient than those made from  conventional semiconductor materials, namely silicon. These high-performance  power electronics can increase electric vehicle driving range; help  to integrate renewable energy into the electric grid; and lead to  significant energy savings. “The work  PowerAmerica — and its 82 member organizations spanning industry, academia and  national labs—is doing to galvanize commercialization of high-performance power electronics  is invaluable to our clean energy future,” comments AMMTO director Chris  Saldaña. “PowerAmerica has catalyzed an innovation ecosystem that touches  nearly every sector up and down each supply chain.” Headquartered  in Raleigh, NC, USA, PowerAmerica has commercialized more than 10 WBG  technologies over five years. To date, 40% of PowerAmerica’s 60 projects  have reached or are set to reach commercial status. Not only is  PowerAmerica innovating semiconductors that surpass operational limitations of  traditional silicon-based designs but it also focuses on training the future  workforce of the USA’s manufacturing sector through its education and workforce  development (EWD) program. Since launching in 2014, PowerAmerica has trained  more than 400 masters and PhD students, 300 short-course attendees, 1800  tutorial participants, and 9000 K-12 students in STEM programs, including 2000  participants of hands-on trainings. This is particularly important in  addressing the acute workforce shortage that the power electronics  industry faces, and scaling up PowerAmerica’s existing EWD program is a  proposed focus of the new federal funding. The latest  federal funding builds upon initial federal funding of $70m, in addition to  $81m in cost share from its member partners, for a total of $151m. PowerAmerica  is one of seven Clean Energy Manufacturing Innovation Institutes supported  by two of the DOE’s Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy program  offices: the Advanced Materials and  Manufacturing Technologies Office (AMMTO) and Industrial Efficiency and Decarbonization  Office (IEDO). In addition, PowerAmerica is one of the 16  member institutes of Manufacturing USA, a national network of  manufacturing innovation institutes for advanced manufacturing through  large-scale public–private collaboration  on technology, supply chain, and education and workforce development. 