Spark Connected and Infineon unveil 500W industrial wireless charging module Spark Connected of Dallas, TX, USA (which develops wireless power  technology for industrial, automotive, aerospace and consumer applications) and  Infineon Technologies AG of Munich, Germany, have announced the  market release of the Yeti 500W ready-to-integrate wireless charging  module, targeted at industrial machinery, autonomous mobile robots,  automated guided vehicles (AGVs), light electric vehicles (LEVs),  e-Mobility and other power-intensive applications. The Yeti 500W integrates Infineon’s dual-core PSoC 63 Bluetooth Low Energy  MCU for intelligent control and its CoolGaN products for improved  efficiency and reduced EMI. Available for customer sampling from third-quarter 2023, the Yeti  500W industrial wireless charging module features high-power capability,  delivering up to 500W of power for efficient and fast charging. It also has  what is claimed to be the industry’s highest efficiency of over 95%. This not  only reduces power losses but also facilitates thermal management,  improving overall performance and durability. For a seamless user experience,  the Yeti 500W offers misalignment tolerance of over 40mm in all directions, so  reliable charging is ensured even if the orientation is not perfectly accurate.  In addition, the module is widely compatible and can charge all common battery types  and voltages. This versatility makes it suitable for a wide range of industrial  applications, offering convenience and adaptability. The Yeti 500W  incorporates advanced features to ensure robust and safe operation. These  include over-voltage and over-current protection to protect both the charger  and connected equipment from potential damage or hazards. Furthermore, it is  designed for easy integration into existing industrial systems, enabling fast  time-to-market for companies looking to expand their charging infrastructure  without significant disruption. “We are excited to partner with Spark Connected and provide  differentiated Bluetooth Low Energy microcontrollers and highly efficient power  devices for their latest Yeti 500W industrial wireless charging  module,” says Tony Antonacci, senior director applications marketing  at Infineon Technologies. “The Yeti represents a step forward in charging power  and integration, enabling industries to improve their operations and move  towards an energy-efficient wire-free future,” he adds. “Combining Spark’s disruptive wireless power technology with  Infineon’s broad semiconductor portfolio, we are empowering industries to  embrace the full potential of wireless charging, enabling truly autonomous  systems and revolutionizing the way they operate,” says Spark Connected’s chief  operating officer Ruwanga Dassanayake. “This production-grade module  provides unparalleled efficiency and convenience, which we believe will usher  in a new era of innovation and productivity to our customers.” 