UbiQD expands collaboration with First Solar on quantum dot-enhanced solar modules Nanotechnology firm UbiQD Inc of Los Alamos, NM, USA has entered into a joint development  agreement with cadmium telluride (CdTe) thin-film photovoltaic (PV) module  maker First Solar Inc of Tempe, AZ, USA to collaborate further on  developing the potential to incorporate fluorescent quantum dot technology  in advanced solar modules. The two firms have been conducting exploratory  work since early 2022, and the initial results have supported the new, more  formalized joint-development effort. Since quantum dot (QD) nanoparticles exhibit  high-efficiency photoluminescence over a wide range of tunable colors, they are  effective at optimizing light spectra. UbiQD has launched several  greenhouse products under its UbiGro brand that adjust the spectrum of sunlight  to enhance crop growth. Now, the firm is engineering these materials for  potential applications in utility-scale solar, with the aim of significantly  increasing the efficiency of existing PV technologies. “As we work towards developing the next generation of  photovoltaics, we are exploring a range of enhancements that could allow us to  convert more sunlight into energy,” says First Solar’s chief technology officer  Markus Gloeckler. “We are interested in the  potential use of quantum dots in optimizing the absorption of light and  look forward to continuing our work with UbiQD on exploring this possibility,”  he adds. “With First Solar’s domain expertise and leadership  position in multi-gigawatt-scale solar, we are excited to be working together  on the potential to enhance panel efficiency using quantum dot  technology,” says UbiQD’s CEO Hunter McDaniel. “If  successful, this application in solar modules will be a perfect example of the  broad applicability of our core technology. With emerging applications in food  and energy, these novel nanomaterials are proving to be a key tool in  humanity's urgent response to climate change and further sustainable  economic development.” 