Infineon and Chicony Power collaborate on GaN-based PD3.1 notebook adapter Taiwan-based power supply maker Chicony Power Technology is expanding its partnership with  Infineon Technologies AG of Munich, Germany  to increase the performance of its latest PD3.1 notebook adapter series. The  two firms aim to provide end-customers with highly efficient power solutions, based on gallium nitride (GaN), with a smaller form factor and higher power density. With the latest USB PD 3.1 standard, released in 2021, and Chicony Power’s core competitiveness in power adapters, the firm selected Infineon’s  CoolGaN and CoolMOS technology to realize the latest PD3.1 notebook power adapter series with what is claimed to be  best-in-class performance. Due to the new topology, the new adapter series can  provide no less than a 30% increase in power density  and demonstrates what is said to be outstanding performance in switching and  conduction losses. The new series can deliver up to 240W compared with the 100W  defined in USB 3.0 and charges  high-performance notebooks such as gaming computers  and multimedia workstations via USB-C power delivery.  The new power adapter series can be  used as a universal power supply for  multiple electronic devices. “We use our unique expertise in gallium nitride technology in applications and system solutions to  make high-performance computing more efficient and more mobile,” says Adam  White, president of Infineon’s Power and Sensor Systems Division. “Together  with Chicony Power and our CoolGaN  technology, we can realize the new power design  capability for PD3.1 adapters, so that every user can easily contribute to  decarbonizing the way we work with computers – without compromising on mobility  for the sake of performance,” he adds. “Infineon is an excellent partner for us in energy conversion and  energy efficiency,” comments Yang  Wang, vice president R&D at  Chicony Power. “Combined with  Chicony Power’s remarkable  capabilities in power systems, the  new PD3.1 product series has been achieved within a faster time to market,”  he adds. “Power and size are key points for mobile workers. Gallium nitride and silicon semiconductors from  Infineon are the perfect match to increase power density  and reduce losses.” 