First Solar issues 2023 Sustainability Report unveiling onsite third-party social audits Cadmium telluride (CdTe) thin-film photovoltaic (PV) module maker  First Solar Inc of Tempe, AZ, USA has released its 2023 Sustainability Report  and established a new industry benchmark for transparency by making public  details of onsite third-party social audits conducted across its global  manufacturing footprint in what is believed to be an industry first. First Solar is also believed to be the first  among the world’s largest solar manufacturers to have conducted third-party  social audits across its operational global manufacturing footprint. First Solar says that its integrated  manufacturing process helps to eliminate risks and traceability challenges  associated with outsourcing and the multiple supply tiers of conventional crystalline silicon solar manufacturing. As the only  major solar manufacturer that is a member of the Responsible Business Alliance  (RBA), First Solar conducted three  onsite third-party RBA Validated Assessment Program (VAP) audits at its  manufacturing facilities in the USA, Malaysia and Vietnam. While the firm’s US  and Vietnam operations achieved the highest-possible rating of platinum status,  the audits uncovered the fact that four service providers at its Malaysia  facility fell short of First Solar’s  standards. Details of the findings and First Solar’s corrective actions are  included in the company’s 2023 Sustainability Report.  The Malaysia facility is expected to have its VAP closure audit in  fourth-quarter 2023. The purpose of proven third-party social audits like the  RBA VAP social audits is not to  rubber-stamp compliance but to identify and remedy existing and potential  issues to help improve the lives of workers across the supply chain. “We have  chosen to highlight the audit findings openly, not only because of our  commitment to transparency and Responsible Solar,  but to raise awareness of modern slavery  risks that hide in plain sight and to illustrate the value of an independent  third-party social audit conducted  in a credible, comprehensive manner,” says CEO Mark Widmar. “The solar industry  will anchor the global transition to a sustainable energy  future, and we believe that it must do so responsibly,” he adds “Our industry’s  work to power the energy transition and enable the fight against climate change does not serve as credits to  offset its social and human rights  obligations.” The report  also highlights that First Solar’s  new factory in Tamil Nadu, India,  which is scheduled to begin commercial production in second-half 2023, is  expected to be the world’s first net-zero water withdrawal  solar manufacturing facility.  Located in a region of high baseline water stress,  the facility is designed to minimize its impact on local water resources and will rely entirely on  tertiary treated reverse osmosis  water from the city's sewage treatment  plant and have zero wastewater discharge. “As we  continue our journey to growth we are doubling down on our commitment to  Responsible Solar and meaningfully  contributing to the fight against climate change,”  says Widmar. “This includes designing our manufacturing facilities and products  with sustainability in mind.” Compared with  2021, in 2022 First Solar lowered  its greenhouse-gas emissions intensity by 11%, manufacturing energy intensity  by 8%, manufacturing waste intensity by 28%, and manufacturing water intensity  by 20%. The firm also secured an ‘AA’ rating  from MSCI ESG Research in 2022, the highest in the solar industry, and a CDP  Climate Change ‘A-’ rating. First Solar  claims that its PV modules have the lowest carbon and water footprint of any  commercially available PV module today, and that it is the first PV  manufacturer to have its product included in the Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool  (EPEAT) global registry for sustainable electronics. The firm has also  pioneered a high-value recycling program, which provides closed-loop  semiconductor recovery for use in new modules, while also recovering other  materials including aluminium, glass and laminates. 