POET creates optical interposer platform for 1.6T transceivers using 200G-per-lane technology POET Technologies Inc of Toronto,  Ontario, Canada — designer and developer of the POET Optical Interposer, photonic integrated circuits (PICs) and light sources for the data-center, telecom and artificial intelligence (AI) markets — has announced its  development of an optical interposer platform for 1.6T transceivers and  beyond using 200G-per-lane technology for next-generation data-center and AI  networks. Migrating from 100G per lane to 200G per lane doubles the  bandwidth with the same face-plate density as 100G per lane, lowers  the overall system power consumption and reduces the solution cost. Cloud  and other service providers can continue to reap the benefits of pluggable  transceivers in their networks and deploy pluggable solutions at bandwidths of  1.6T (and beyond) with 200G-per-lane technology utilizing POET’s enhanced  interposer-powered optical engines. “Moving to 200Gbps per lane is a critical step for the industry to  sustain the bandwidth demands of the cloud and AI networks,” says chairman  & CEO Dr Suresh Venkatesan. “An integration platform like the POET  Optical  Interposer is an absolute requirement at such high speeds to  connect optical and electrical components and at the same time meet performance  and power requirements,” he adds. “We have augmented the Optical Interposer  platform in several important ways to extract the native bandwidth of  components without inducing the losses and interferences that are common in  other integration schemes. We are working with several industry leaders and  integrating their high-bandwidth components on our platform to demonstrate 200G  performance.” Enhancements to the Optical Interposer now support  200Gbps-per-lane speed for both the transmitter and the receiver. The transmit  optical engine has been modified for externally modulated lasers (EML), EML drivers  and monolithically integrated multiplexers for single-mode fiber  applications for up to 10km reach. The receive optical engine can now  incorporate the next-generation higher-speed photodiodes, trans-impedance amplifiers  and monolithically integrated low-loss polarization-insensitive demultiplexers  for 1.6T transceivers and beyond. The newly designed Optical Interposer architecture enables  seamless wafer-scale passive assembly of externally modulated lasers from  multiple suppliers, providing maximum flexibility for customer requirements.  Among the new features of the Optical Interposer, the most important  include: The overall effect of these improvements to the Optical Interposer  platform is to achieve superior performance in a power-optimized solution at  200G per lane that can be included in 1.6T pluggable transceivers.  The small-form-factor of POET Optical Engines makes the solution scalable  to 3.2T pluggable transceivers in existing industry standard form factors. POET expects to complete the design of 1.6T transmit and receive  optical engines with 200Gbps-per-lane technology based on the new  generation of Optical Interposer designs by early 2024. It plans to  demonstrate these products at major tradeshows and to begin customer sampling  by first-half 2024. Additional information about POET’s developments in 200G-per-lane  1.6T optical engines are being featured at the European Conference on Optical Communication  (ECOC 2023) on 2 October  in Glasgow, Scotland, UK, where POET’s senior VP Raju Kankipati is  discussing the ‘Semiconductorization of Photonics using Silicon Optical Interposers’. 