Bami Bastani joins Sivers Semiconductors as strategic advisor Chip and integrated module supplier Sivers  Semiconductors AB of Kista, Sweden says that Dr Bami Bastani has joined it as a strategic advisor to the board and  management to further strengthen the firm’s focus on the US and global markets  and to provide guidance related to the semiconductor, photonics, 5G and SATCOM  ecosystems. Bastani has over four decades of extensive experience in the  industry, most recently as senior VP  & general manager at  GLOBALFOUNDRIES, where he led the high-growth Mobile and Wireless  Infrastructure business unit. He  transitioned to senior VP &  senior advisor to the CEO in August 2022 through March 2023. He has also served  on the board of directors of the Global Semiconductor Alliance (GSA). Bastani’s leadership roles have spanned multiple industries that  include semiconductor components (Intel, National Semiconductor),  system-on-a-chip (Fujitsu Micro,  Trident Microsystems), systems and software (Meru Networks including WiFi as a Service –WAAS-on-the-Cloud) and  manufacturing services (GLOBALFOUNDRIES). He has also served as the growth and  turnaround CEO of several public companies, including ANADIGICS, Trident  Microsystems, and Meru Networks. “Bami Bastani is a  strategically important addition to our team and fits perfectly with the  company’s strategy to develop and expand our business,” says Sivers Semiconductors’ chairman Tomas  Duffy. “I look  very much forward to work with Bami and the board to further strengthen our  position in the US,” he adds. Bastani is “an  industry veteran who offers in-depth knowledge directly relevant to the Sivers  ecosystem and strategic market presence,” comments group CEO  Anders Storm.  “Bami will support our continued growth journey, especially in the US which  will further strengthen our position,” he adds. “Sivers  is uniquely positioned in photonics, 5G and SATCOM, all of which are critical  to the mega trends in connectivity  for data centers, point-to-point high-speed data transitions, edge-to-edge connectivity for AI and  autonomous vehicles, to mention a  few examples,” comments Bastani. 