US Department of Energy releases 2023 Critical Materials Assessment The US  Department of Energy (DOE) has released its 2023 Critical Materials  Assessment, which evaluated materials for their criticality to global clean energy  technology supply chains and has hence determined the 2023 DOE Critical Materials List of energy-specific  critical and near-critical materials through 2035. The Assessment  focuses on key materials with high risk of supply disruption that are integral  to clean energy technologies. The final list includes aluminium, cobalt,  copper, dysprosium, electrical steel (grain-oriented steel, non-grain-oriented  steel, and amorphous steel), fluorine, gallium, iridium, lithium, magnesium,  natural graphite, neodymium, nickel, platinum, praseodymium, terbium, silicon,  and silicon carbide. 

  Gallium (Ga) continues to be critical due to its use in  light-emitting diodes. In addition, the use of gallium has increased both in  magnet manufacturing and in semiconductors including gallium arsenide  (GaAs) or gallium nitride (GaN), the Assessment notes.  The Figure shows four different demand scenarios for gallium from  2020 to 2035 against current gallium production and production capacity. Energy  applications considered for gallium were LED lighting, magnets in  electric vehicles (EVs) and wind turbines, solar cells, and  power electronics. There is a wide gap among the four trajectories due to different  technology trends. LED demand is steadily growing for both low and high  trajectories. Gallium demand for magnets in EVs and wind is highly variable  because of the difference between low and high intensities. In the case of  solar, because the adoption of copper indium gallium diselenide (CIGS)  is shrinking, trajectories A and B assume no CIGS market share between  2020 and 2035, while trajectories C and D assume 5% CIGS market share  within the same time frame. Overall, demand for gallium in energy applications  is the dominant use of gallium. Other demand not considered in the report  includes the use of gallium in consumer electronics and  telecommunications. As the Figure shows, ‘other demand’ is insignificant. Production data were obtained from the United States Geological  Survey (USGS). Of this data, high-purity refined gallium production  was identified as the material form of interest due to the requirement that  most semiconductor applications feature 6N purity or higher (IARC). To  compute total high-purity gallium production capacity, the primary high-purity  gallium production capacity 325mt was summed with the secondary high-purity gallium  production capacity 273mt (USGS). Regarding current production, because  recycling output is not available, an assumed 86% capacity utilization rate was  used to derive production from capacity. This number, 232mt, was then added to  primary high-purity gallium production, 220mt, to compute the total supply of  high-purity gallium. “As our nation  continues the transition to a clean energy economy, it is our  responsibility to anticipate critical material supply chains needed  to manufacture our most promising clean energy generation, transmission,  storage and end-use technologies, including solar panels, wind turbines,  power electronics, lighting, and electric vehicles,” says Alejandro  Moreno, acting assistant secretary for the DOE’s Office of Energy Efficiency  and Renewable Energy (EERE). “Ultimately, identifying and mitigating  material criticality now will ensure that a clean energy future is  possible for decades to come.” Because  material and technology markets are global, the Critical Materials  Assessment has a global scope, placing US domestic interests in that context.  For each of the critical materials identified, the DOE says it will develop an  integrated strategy to address material-specific risks. The 2023  Critical Materials Assessment was managed and funded by EERE’s Advanced Materials and Manufacturing Technologies Office (AMMTO) and was  conducted by Argonne National Laboratory and Idaho National Laboratory, in  consultation with members of the DOE  Critical Minerals and  Materials Science and Energy Technology Team. 