NUBURU more than doubles revenue in Q2 to $1.1m For second-quarter 2023, NUBURU Inc of Centennial, CO,  USA — which was founded  in 2015 and develops and manufactures high-power industrial blue lasers for fast, laser materials  processing — has  reported revenue of $1.05m, more than  doubling from $0.47m last quarter and compared with just $0.04m a year ago, driven by continued execution of product deliveries to  commercial customers Essentium and GE Additive. Specifically, it  continued to deliver units to Essentium as part of a multi-year partnership  focused on metal 3D printing for the aerospace, automotive  and defense markets. The firm also delivered the first blue area printing head as part of the Small  Business Innovation Research (SBIR) Phase II contract awarded in 2022 by AFWERX (an  innovation arm of the US Department of the Air Force) to GE Additive for testing. “Our heads-down  approach in delivering the highest-quality and energy-efficient manufacturing  solutions remains our top priority and is underpinned by the progress we’ve  made in introducing additional product lines within our core  technology portfolio,” says CEO & co-founder Dr Mark Zediker. During the quarter, NUBURU: “With the recent product  launch of our new NUBURU BL Series Laser, our  market positioning for long-term growth continues to develop,” says Zediker.  “In tandem with the accelerating market demand we recognize for sustainable  welding and 3D printing technologies, we’ve also  witnessed an increased interest in our products by blue chip customers such as NASA.” Operating expenses have almost doubled from $2.7m to $5m, due mainly to one-time  professional fees associated with legal, compliance and accounting matters  following the business combination and transitioning to being a public company,  plus regular general and administrative costs associated with the firm’s status  as a public company and increased costs for R&D of tooling and supplies  related to the development of the BL product line. EBITDA  (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) has gone from –$3.75m a year ago and  –$4.6m  last quarter  to –$6m. Net  cash used in operating activities during Q2/2023 has risen further, from $2.83m  a year ago and $4.05m last quarter to $4.65m. Driven by the  increase in production capabilities to support additional product lines, capital expenditure (CapEx) has  increased from $0.083m a year ago and $0.345m last quarter to $0.48m. Free cash flow has hence worsened, from –$2.9m a year ago and –$4.4m  last quarter to –$5.1m. Despite this, cash  and cash equivalents rose during the quarter from $1.52m to $6.6m due to the funds  raised in the private placement. “As we look forward  to the remainder of the year, we remain cognizant of the supply chain conditions that present bottlenecks in the procurement process for  scanner- and lens-related components,” says Zediker. “However, with alternative  sourcing initiatives in place, we believe such material constraints will abate  toward the end of the second half of this year,” he adds. “As part of our  top-down approach to boost gross margins and revenue expansion, our team  consistently assesses opportunities for implementing operational efficiencies  and cost-saving measures,” says Zediker. NUBURU has  hence reiterated its full-year 2023 guidance of revenue in excess of $3m,  EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) in the  range –$21m to –$23m, and free cash flow in the range –$24m to –$26m. The firm  believes that it has access to sufficient sources of capital to fund this  business plan. 