Understanding the impact of Auger recombination on InGaN LED efficiency Researchers based in the UK and Ireland  report that Auger recombination in indium gallium nitride (InGaN) multiple quantum wells (MQWs) is enhanced by carrier localization effects rather than  defect assistance, according to their theoretical and experimental work [R. M. Barrett et al, ACS Photonics, published online 19  July 2023]. Auger recombination is seen as a major  culprit in the droop in internal quantum efficiency (IQE) and external quantum efficiency (EQE) at high carrier concentrations, as seen at high current injection. The team from University of Manchester in  the UK, University College Cork in Ireland, and University of Cambridge in the  UK, comment: “Good quantitative agreement between measurement and calculated  IQE has now been demonstrated, showing that Auger recombination, enhanced by  the localization of carriers but without any defect assistance, is sufficient  to explain droop in the green-emitting QWs studied here.” They add: “The peak IQE values of ~70% reported here under  resonant excitation for samples that are designed to vary in point defect density and elsewhere show that there is limited scope for  further improvement of maximum recombination efficiency within the  active region of green-emitting QWs.” The team thus believes that the focus  should be on reducing expected carrier densities in LED operation towards the  region of peak IQE. Although one might expect non-polar and semi-polar crystal  orientation to improve droop effects, due to a faster recombination rate  (sub-ns, as opposed to 10-100ns in the c-plane structures studied), this has  not been realized experimentally. The team suggests that there is more scope  for improvement from focusing on aspects other than recombination within the  active region: “For instance, improving the efficiency and homogeneity of  carrier injection into the active region or reducing current leakage is likely to yield greater increases in EQE. This work also  indicates that the most productive route to reducing droop is to target active region designs that reduce carrier density in individual QWs, such as the increased QW area or QW  number or a more even distribution of carriers between QWs, rather than trying  to reduce Shockley–Read–Hall (SRH) recombination in  the active region.” LEDs work by injecting electrons and holes  into an active region where they recombine, releasing their energy as photons.  Unfortunately there are other ways to release their energy. One way is through  intermediate energy levels provided by defects — a process  described by the Shockley–Read–Hall recombination mechanism. Another way is for an electron–hole pair to transfer their energy by give a kick to another carrier  — Auger recombination. These SRH and Auger processes sap the desired effect of  emitting photons in a desired wavelength range. 