First Solar selects Louisiana for its fifth US manufacturing facility Cadmium telluride (CdTe) thin-film photovoltaic (PV) module  maker First Solar Inc of Tempe, AZ, USA has selected the Acadiana  Regional Airport in Iberia Parish, Louisiana as the location for its fifth  fully vertically integrated manufacturing facility in the USA (announced  at the end of July). Believed to be the single largest capital investment  in the area’s history, the facility represents an investment of up to $1.1bn in  expanding the USA’s capacity to produce its own photovoltaic solar modules.  Expected to be completed in first-half 2026, it is forecast to grow the firm’s  nameplate manufacturing capacity by 3.5GW to reach about 14GW in the USA in  2026. First Solar’s  investment in Louisiana is expected to create over 700 new direct manufacturing  jobs in the state. The company — which is already believed to be the largest employer in  the USA’s solar manufacturing sector, with over 2500 staff across the country — expects to have over 4000 direct employees in the country  by 2026, including 850 new manufacturing jobs expected to be created in Alabama  and Ohio and over 100 new R&D jobs planned in Ohio. First Solar is  unique among the world’s ten largest solar manufacturers for being the only  US-headquartered company and not manufacturing in China. Its tellurium-based  semiconductor material, which allows it to avoid any dependence on Chinese  crystalline silicon supply chains, is the second most common  photovoltaic technology available today. “We are  pleased to partner with Louisiana as we lean into our commitment to creating  enduring value for America by expanding our solar manufacturing footprint and  the domestic value chains that enable it,” says CEO Mark Widmar. “As we  evaluated our options, Louisiana’s ability to deliver the talent we need stood  out, thanks to its extensive workforce development initiatives and the presence  of academic institutions such as the University of Louisiana at Lafayette,  which now features a world-class solar energy lab,” he adds. “We expect the  plant to mirror the commitment to Responsible Solar evident at every First  Solar manufacturing facility, which are among the cleanest, safest, and most  diverse in the industry,” claims Widmar. Since the  start of this decade, First Solar has embarked on a $4.1bn manufacturing  expansion strategy that has seen it grow from about 6GW of global nameplate  capacity in 2020 to 13GW operational today, with about 12GW of nameplate  capacity expected to come online in the USA and India between second-half 2023  and 2026. In addition to the Louisiana facility, First Solar commissioned  its third Ohio factory earlier this year and is expected to complete its new  facility in Alabama and the expansion of its existing Ohio footprint in 2024.  It also expects its new facility in India to begin commercial production in  second-half 2023. Additionally, the firm is investing up to $370m in a  dedicated R&D innovation center in Perrysburg, Ohio, which is expected  to be completed in 2024. The new  Louisiana facility will produce First Solar’s Series 7 modules, which are  expected to be manufactured with 100% US-made components identified in the  current domestic content guidance issued by the US Department of Treasury.  First Solar anticipates that, once the new factory is completed and  ramped, Series 7 modules will account for over two thirds of its  annual domestic nameplate capacity. Series 7 modules currently  produced at the firm’s Ohio facility are already manufactured with US-made  glass and steel. 