Arkansas begins construction of US national Multi-User Silicon Carbide Research and Fabrication Facility The University of Arkansas (U of A) has begun construction of the US national  Multi-User Silicon Carbide Research and Fabrication Facility (MUSiC). Capable of silicon or silicon carbide  chip fabrication, the new semiconductor research and fabrication facility will  enable the government, businesses of all sizes, and universities to prototype  in silicon carbide, introducing a capability that does not presently exist  in the USA. The unique  facility will offer low-volume prototyping for high-volume manufacturing,  bridging the gap between traditional university research and the needs of  private industry. The aim is to accelerate both workforce development and  technological advancement in semiconductors by providing a single location  where chips can go from developmental research to prototyping, testing and  fabrication.  Picture: Artist’s rendering of the national  Multi-User Silicon Carbide Research and Fabrication Facility (MUSiC). With MUSiC,  the university could “begin training the next generation at a variety of degree  levels to provide well-trained and educated talent for onshoring semiconductor  manufacturing that domestic suppliers offshored in the late 90s and early  2000s,” says principal investigator Alan Mantooth, Distinguished Professor of  electrical engineering. “Our training will be equally applicable to silicon and  silicon carbide and other materials.” Construction  coincides with the CHIPS America Summit on 17 August, an  invitation-only event for research, industry and governmental leaders from  across the nation to discuss CHIPS and Science Act  semiconductor-related opportunities. The summit  features Adrienne Elrod, director of external & government affairs for the  US Department of Commerce’s CHIPS Program Office. US Representative Steve  Womack and Arkansas Secretary of Commerce Hugh McDonald are also participating. In addition to  the MUSiC facility, the U of A is also home to the first Energy Frontier  Research Center in Arkansas, as part of a team of researchers who received  $10.35m from the US Department of Energy. The Center for Manipulation of Atomic Ordering  for Manufacturing Semiconductors is dedicated to investigating the formation of  atomic orders in semiconductor alloys and their effects on various physical  properties. This research program aims to enable reliable, cost-effective and  transformative manufacturing of semiconductors. Researchers at  the U of A previously established the MonArk NSF Quantum Foundry to  accelerate the development of quantum materials and devices. In collaboration  with Montana State University and other member universities, the foundry  supports the study of 2D materials — consisting of a single layer of  bonded atoms — by aiding researchers and facilitating the exchange of ideas  across academia and industry. The project leads the fabrication of 2D material  quantum devices and their characterization, using low-temperature  electronic transport and optoelectronic techniques. The U of A  reckons that its existing and expanding research foundation means that it’s  uniquely positioned to take advantage of the recent CHIPS (Creating Helpful  Incentives to Produce Semiconductors) and Science Act, which is providing about  $280bn in funding to stimulate domestic research and manufacturing of  semiconductors. As a result of  manufacturing and production shortages of essential computer chips during the  pandemic, which are overwhelmingly manufactured overseas, the federal  government has prioritized the onshoring of this critical technology. 