Crystal IS produces first 4-inch AlN substrate Crystal IS Inc of Green Island, NY, USA — a  subsidiary of Tokyo-based Asahi Kasei that makes proprietary ultraviolet  light-emitting diodes (UVC LEDs) — has produced what it claims is the first reported 4-inch  (100mm)-diameter single-crystal aluminium nitride  (AlN) substrate, demonstrating the scalability of its processes for growing AlN  bulk single crystals to meet  production demands. Aluminium nitride substrates have low defect densities, high UV transparency, and low impurity concentrations. AlN is  attractive for a variety of applications, such as UVC LEDs and power devices,  due to its ultra-wide bandgap and very high thermal conductivity. The 4-inch substrate produced shows a usable  area of over 80% based on existing requirements for UVC LEDs. “This  accomplishment signifies that aluminium nitride  is commercially viable for new industries beyond just UVC LEDs,” comments Dr Naohiro Kuze, executive fellow, Research Laboratory of Advanced Science and Technology, Asahi Kasei. Founded in  1997 to develop native aluminium nitride  substrates, Crystal IS manufactures  UVC LEDs on its commercial process  for 2-inch diameter substrates. These LEDs enable what is claimed to be  industry-leading reliability and performance at the ideal germicidal  wavelengths of 260–270nm for the disinfection of water, air and surfaces. The  existing capacity of the facility can meet the volume requirements for consumer  devices using UVC LEDs based on the  existing 2-inch production line. “This  indicates the scalability of our processes to deliver quality devices on aluminium nitride,” says Crystal IS’ president & CEO Eoin Connolly. Crystal IS currently produces thousands of 2-inch  substrates annually to support the production of its Klaran and Optan product lines. The commercialization of 4-inch  AlN substrates will quadruple the device output of the existing footprint of  the firm’s Green Island facility. It  should also enable the development of new applications on aluminium nitride substrates as it integrates into  existing fabrication lines for power and RF devices using alternative  materials. Crystal IS is presenting the progress on 4-inch  substrates at the 23rd American Conference on Crystal Growth and Epitaxy in Tucson, Arizona (13–18 August). 