Sivers receives $375,000 award under DARPA NGMM program in collaboration with PseudolithIC Chip and integrated module supplier Sivers  Semiconductors AB of Kista, Sweden says that its US  subsidiary Sivers Semiconductors Inc has received an award worth  $375,000 (about 4MSEK)  under the US Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency  (DARPA) Next-Generation Microelectronics Manufacturing (NGMM) program in  collaboration with PseudolithIC Inc of Santa Barbara, CA, USA. The  program aims to develop three-dimensional heterogeneously integrated (3DHI)  technologies. PseudolithIC and Sivers will specifically investigate 3DHI  systems for millimeter-wave (mmWave) applications in the 5G, SATCOM and defense  sectors. Three-dimensional heterogeneous integration  involves the heterogeneous integration of disparate materials and components,  enabled by advanced packaging that leverages all three dimensions. The DARPA  NGMM program is a complementary effort to the US CHIPS Act, a $52.7bn program designed to invigorate  American semiconductor research, development, manufacturing and workforce  development. Sivers and Pseudolithic will specifically focus on the  heterogeneous integration of Sivers’ high-performance radio-frequency  silicon-on-insulator (RF SOI) beamformers with III-V front ends for millimeter-wave 5G, SATCOM and defense  applications. “One of our major goals with the acquisition of MixComm (today part of  Sivers Wireless), was to get a better footprint in the US market. I cannot see  any better acknowledgment than getting this award from the DARPA NGMM program,”  says Sivers Semiconductors’ group CEO Anders Storm. “Working in this project  on the next-generation mmWave applications in the 5G, SATCOM and for the  defense sectors is a fantastic step for Sivers,” he adds. “We are  excited to team PseudolithIC’s innovative heterogeneous integration technology  with the proven performance of Sivers’ RF SOI beamforming chipsets,”  comments PseudolithIC’s CEO Dan Green. “This combination of  silicon and III-V technology will enable access to the millimeter-wave spectrum  with performance and scale surpassing any single, monolithic technology.” Sivers expects all revenue from the award to be  recognized in 2023. 