OIF announces External Laser Small Form-Factor Pluggable Implementation Agreement The Optical Internetworking Forum (OIF) has unveiled the External Laser  Small Form-Factor Pluggable (ELSFP) Implementation Agreement (IA),  defining a front-panel pluggable form factor tailored to co-packaged  optical systems and other multiple laser external laser source  applications. The ELSFP IA introduces the first multi-sourced future-proof  front-panel pluggable external laser source form factor to address  the evolving needs of the industry. This IA is said to offer benefits including  definitions for the placement of laser sources at the front panel, the coolest  section of the system, enhancing system reliability and allowing for efficient  ‘hot-swap’ field replacement when necessary. The ELSFP uses a multi-fiber blind-mate optical connector  positioned at the rear of the module. This strategic design mitigates potential  eye-safety risks, particularly in applications where high optical powers are  involved. Each ELSFP can supply optical power to one or more optical engines,  all seamlessly managed by OIF’s Common Management Interface Specification  (CMIS). The IA also defines interoperability for mechanical, thermal,  electrical and optical parameters as well as establishing standard power ranges  and fiber configurations to focus the industry’s development. The final feature  unique to ELSFP is the pass-through option, which allows systems architects  to maximize face-plate real estate, solidifying ELSFP’s position as a  versatile and adaptable solution for various optical networking applications. “By providing a front-panel pluggable external laser source form factor,  we’re empowering network operators and equipment manufacturers with a  cutting-edge solution that not only improves reliability but also paves the way  for future innovations,” says Jeff Hutchins of Ranovus, OIF board member  and Physical & Link Layer (PLL) Working Group Co-Packaging  vice chair. “The ELSFP’s flexible design accommodates the ever-changing  needs of the industry, enabling seamless integration with OIF’s 3.2T  co-packaged optical module project and beyond.” While the ELSFP project was originally envisioned to complement  the 3.2T co-packaged optical module, its forward-looking design makes it easily  extensible to address future requirements. “The ELSFP has already garnered a favorable industry reception  through its potential to propel external laser source applications  forward, as evidenced by strong collaboration among OIF members both in writing  the IA and the substantial engagement in numerous interoperability  demonstrations facilitated by OIF,” comments Cisco’s Jock Bovington, editor of  the OIF ELSFP IA. 