NUBURU wins NASA contract to demo power beaming in space using blue laser technology NUBURU Inc of Centennial, CO, USA — which  conducts research, development, design and manufacturing of high-power,  high-brightness industrial blue lasers — has been awarded a contract by the US National Aeronautics  and Space Administration (NASA) to demonstrate the feasibility of power beaming in space using the firm’s  proprietary blue laser technology.  Through NASA’s Small Business  Innovation Research (SBIR) funding initiative, NUBURU has been selected to  create a qualified solution that mitigates the high costs associated with  transporting copper or aluminium wires that are critical to provide power to  lunar or planetary bases in remote locations. “Power beaming is one of the only effective and economical  solutions to the power management  challenges facing NASA and other space operators today,” says NUBURU’s CEO Mark  Zediker. “Powered by our blue laser  technology, the system we are developing will provide a unique solution that  dramatically reduces the size and weight of the equipment needed to meet  regular mission needs.” During the initial phase of the project, NUBURU will focus on  establishing the scientific, technical and commercial merit and feasibility of  its technology. The firm then aims to create a commercially viable product to  tackle this ongoing problem and continue to develop innovative space-qualified  hardware. In addition to tackling the core business challenges associated  with power transmission, NUBURU’s laser technology can provide visual guidance  to astronauts due to the scatter off either the fine regolith powder suspended  above the moon’s surface or the Rayleigh scattering off the Martian atmosphere,  creating a guided highway across these surfaces. NUBURU’s blue laser power beaming  system will also be equipped with a high-bandwidth laser communication link,  ensuring laser safety and enabling data transmission  between widely spaced habitats. NASA’s SBIR program funds the research, development and  demonstration of innovative technologies that fulfill NASA needs as described  in the annual solicitations and have significant potential for successful  commercialization. This three-phase process begins with a six-month idea generation period followed by a two-year  prototype development phase that then leads to commercialization. 