Qorvo’s June-quarter revenue down less than expected, as Android consumer-related inventory consumption offset by growth in defense & aerospace and automotive For its fiscal first-quarter 2024 (ended 1 July 2023), Qorvo Inc of Greensboro, NC, USA (which provides core technologies  and RF solutions for mobile, infrastructure and defense applications) has  reported revenue of $651.2m (down 37%  on $1035.4m a year ago but up 2.9% on last quarter’s $632.7m). This was well above the mid-point of the  $620–660m guidance range, despite the macro-environment. Relative strength in  areas like defense & aerospace and automotive was offset by inventory  consumption across consumer markets and weak demand in 5G infrastructure.  However, channel inventories of the firm’s components in the Android ecosystem was  reduced by a further 20% (following  greater than 20% reductions in the prior two quarters). “We have made  significant progress clearing channel inventories,” notes president & CEO Bob Bruggeworth. “Qorvo  continues to under-ship to end-market demand.” By business segment, revenue (compared with last quarter) comprised: On a non-GAAP basis, gross margin was 42.9% (down from 50% a year ago but up from 41.3% last quarter). This outperformed  the expected 41.5% due to higher production levels and product mix, despite a headwind of about 800 basis points from under-utilization after  factory production levels improved only modestly. Operating expenses were $232.7m, up from $227.4m last quarter due to  investments in multi-year customer programs, investments in core systems and  other productivity initiatives, and the return of incentive compensation based  on expectations for improved financial performance. However, OpEx was  down slightly from $233.8m a year ago, and less than the expected $237m or so. Operating income was $46.7m (operating margin of 7.2% of revenue), down from $284.4m a year ago but up from $33.8m last quarter. By operating segment, operating margin was  11% for ACG, 17% for HPA and –20% for CSG (a notable sequential  improvement). However, the Qorvo Biotechnologies business reduced CSG operating  income by about $2m. “We are currently in the process of seeking strategic  alternatives for this business,” notes senior VP  & chief financial officer Grant  Brown. Net  income was $33.6m ($0.34 per diluted share), down from $238.4m ($2.25 per diluted share) a year ago but up from  $25.7m ($0.26 per diluted share) last quarter, and more than  double the expected $0.15 per diluted share. Operating cash flow was $44.9m, down from $65.4m last quarter. Capital expenditure  on purchases of property and equipment has risen from $34.1m to $39.5m. Free  cash flow was hence just $5.4m, down from $31.3m  last quarter. During the quarter, Qorvo repurchased  $100m worth of its shares (at an average  price of $96.81 each). The firm also completed the sale of its Farmers Branch campus. Overall, cash and  equivalents hence fell from $809m to  $744m. As of quarter-end, Qorvo had about $2bn of debt outstanding with no  near-term maturities. “Qorvo exceeded the mid-point of our June  quarterly guidance for revenue, gross margin  and EPS [provided on 3 May] while  also continuing to reduce channel inventory,” notes Brown. “The team is  executing very well, working closely with our suppliers and customers while  navigating a challenging macroenvironment.” Net inventory balance rose by $121m to  $917m, driven by the seasonal ramp at Qorvo’s largest customer. “We are introducing  new products and technologies to increase our content in customer designs and  broaden our exposure in new and existing markets,” notes president & CEO  Bob Bruggeworth. During the quarter, design wins in HPA  were diversified across customers and markets and included large defense  programs extending multiple years. In Connectivity and Sensors, design  activity spanned a variety of applications including highly integrated IoT  connectivity solutions, Wi-Fi 7 RF  front ends and force-sensing touch  sensors. “We have a broad range of growth drivers  in CSG and we are pleased with our increasing design activity in new growth areas like sensors and ultra-wideband,”  says Bruggeworth. “Over time, we see HPA and CSG  contributing increasingly to growth, diversification and margin expansion,” he  adds. In Advanced Cellular, design activity  continued to be favorable across all leading smartphone OEMs. “We are growing  our content and next-generation 5G smartphones at our largest customers and we  are capturing new content in the Android ecosystem as 4G units transition to 5G and enter our SAM [serviceable  available market,” says Bruggeworth. “In calendar 2023, approximately 45% of  Android smartphones will be 5G and we expect Android 5G smartphone unit growth to post double-digit CAGR for  several years,” he adds. Considering the current demand environment, further consumption of channel  inventory and seasonal factors, for fiscal second-quarter 2024 (to end-September 2023) Qorvo expects revenue to  grow sequentially by over 50%, to $1bn plus or minus $15m, driven primarily by  content gains at the firm’s largest customer. Gross margin should rise to 45–46%. Operating expenses are expected to increase to about $240m. “In  addition to growth-oriented investments across our product and technology  portfolios, we are also targeting enterprise-wide productivity initiatives.  We’re simplifying and rationalizing processes and upgrading the core systems we  use to run the business,” notes Brown. “We will present these productivity  investments as non-GAAP other operating expenses. These multi-year efforts will  support future growth and enhanced profitability as we upgrade, modernize and  standardize around the latest tools and best practices.” Diluted earnings per share are expected to rise to $1.75 in fiscal Q2/2024. “We expect our inventory balance will  decrease in the September quarter as we support a seasonal ramp [of new  products] at our largest customer,” says Brown. “In terms of channel inventory, the  environment continues to improve. We anticipate channel inventories will  continue to decline this quarter,” says Brown. “Later this calendar year, we  expect Android channel inventories will normalize,” he adds. “Outside of the  Android ecosystem, there are smaller pockets of channel inventory. They will  take longer to digest.” During fiscal second-half 2024 (to end-March 2023), Qorvo expects sequential  declines in gross margin during Q3  and again in Q4, primarily related to utilization and mix. Operating expenses  for Q3 and Q4 are expected to be $240–245m per quarter, with variability related  to the timing of product development  spend, investments in core systems and related productivity initiatives,  incentive compensation based on expectations for improved financial performance,  the timing of the Biotechnology business disposition as well as other items. “We forecast fiscal 2024 revenue will be  above fiscal 2023 and expect to benefit from strong dollar content growth at our largest customer,”  says Brown. Gross margin is expected to be about 44% (down from fiscal 2023’s  46.3%). “As we clear the channel inventory across Android and as  utilization returns to a level in which we’re shipping to end-market demand, we  should have a clear path back towards the 50% gross margins we’ve enjoyed in  the past,” says Brown. Issues are two-fold, he adds. “There is the inventory we  have on hand, which is already burdened with the cost of that under-utilization  in the past. Then there is the forward-looking utilization within the current  quarter as we meet future demand or build product for future demand. Both of  those can weigh on the quarter and are in that 800 basis points. The under-utilization of the current period, if it’s  extreme, can hit as period charges and we’ve experienced some of those as well.  As we re-synchronize our factories to end-market demand, we should have a clear  path back.” 