Ares detects germanium and gallium at US fluorspar mine Following assaying conducted by  inspection,  verification, testing and certification services company SGS, Ares Strategic Mining Inc of Vancouver, BC, Canada, which owns the only permitted fluorspar mine in the USA, says that it has detected germanium and gallium at its 5982-acre  Lost Sheep Fluorspar Project in the Spor Mountain area, Juab County, Utah (about 214km south-west of Salt Lake  City). In 2018 the US government classified fluorspar  as a Critical Mineral, “deemed critical to US national security and the  economy.” Fluorspar remains the only non-metallic Critical Mineral, which is 100% imported in the entire USA. Fluorspar’s  classification as a Critical Mineral in the USA translates  to a faster permitting period, enabling mining operations to initiate more  quickly than operations for conventional minerals, Ares notes. As the firm is focused on returning fluorspar manufacturing  to North America, Ares is currently concentrating  on building processing facilities to achieve production at its operation.  However, it plans to explore the rare-earth discovery when it conducts further  drilling. The minerals were located through an RC drilling program, and further  work using core drilling with be used to develop a better understanding of the  rare earths at the Spor Mountain project. Germanium  ores are rare and most germanium is a by-product of zinc production and from  coal fly ash. China produces around 60% of the world’s  germanium, according to European industry association Critical Raw Materials Alliance (CRMA), with the rest coming  from Canada, Finland, Russia and the USA. China exported 43.7 metric tons  of unwrought and wrought germanium last year, according to Chinese customs.  About $39m worth of germanium was consumed last year, up 10% from 2021,  according to the US Geological Survey (USGS). Gallium is found in trace amounts  in zinc ores and in bauxite, and gallium metal is produced when processing  bauxite to make aluminium. About 80% is produced in China, according to the  CRMA. China exported 94 metric tons of gallium in 2022, up 25% on the prior year, according to  Chinese customs. US imports of gallium metal and gallium arsenide (GaAs) wafers in 2022 were worth about $3m and $200m,  respectively, according to USGS. China has hence been the USA’s principal  source of both germanium and gallium. However, since 1 August, both rare-earth minerals  have been restricted from export from China without a permit from the  authorities. “It’s an extremely interesting find to locate  both germanium and gallium at our fluorspar project, right at the time when the  trade war is promising to interfere with the supply of minerals vital to the  production of microchips and electronics needed to sustain the tech industry,”  says Ares’ CEO & president James Walker. “We are  currently building our production facility in Utah, and upgrades could be  incorporated into the operation to retrieve the minerals, provided further  investigation justifies the expanded recovery operation,” he adds. “As we  continue our construction work, we will investigate this discovery, examining  the possibility of commercialization.” 