Blue Laser Fusion raises $25m in seed round funding Blue Laser Fusion Inc (BLF) of Palo Alto, CA, USA  has raised a total of $25m in its first series seed round funding. Major  investors are the two Japan-based venture capital firms JAFCO Group Co Ltd  and SPARX Group Co Ltd (Mirai Creation Fund III). Blue Laser Fusion was founded in 2022 by University of  California, Santa Barbara (UCSB) professor Shuji Nakamura Ph.D. (the 2014  Nobel Laureate in Physics), Waseda University Ventures (WUV) general partner  Hiroaki Ohta Ph.D., and Silicon Valley-based attorney Richard Ogawa. With over 200 claims in patent applications, BLF has developed a  proprietary novel laser fusion technology that is reckoned to be capable of  achieving the world’s first nuclear fusion for energy generation for power  grids. The firm’s laser technology enables a MegaJoule pulse energy laser with  a fast repetition rate to achieve commercial fusion. BLF plans to complete  it’s first prototype in 2025, and then demonstrate a commercial-ready fusion  reactor by 2030. The new funding will be used to expand R&D operation in the  Santa Barbara area as well as in Tokyo to develop its prototype commercial  reactor. For sustainable and environmentally friendly operation, Blue Laser  Fusion plans to adopt a safe hydrogen–boron fuel called HB11, which is not  radioactive, is free from harmful neutrons, yields safe helium elements, and is  a naturally abundant mineral. “HB11 is the perfect fuel for fusion and has no harmful neutron or  tritium elements, as conventional fusion technologies,” notes chief technology officer  Hiroaki Ohta. “We are pleased to be working with our group of world’s top  scientists and experts to not only ignite a fusion reaction with HB11 but  maintain the reaction to create clean renewable energy,” he adds. “Fusion is the ultimate energy source, and its successful  commercialization will be a huge leap towards achieving clean and abundant  energy for everyone,” comments Keisuke Miyoshi, president & CEO and partner  of JAFCO. “Advances in laser inertial technology, including Blue Laser  Fusion’s ability to execute the next generation of laser technology, provide  the basis for a very exciting and promising path to the ultimate sustainable  energy source.” 