GaN Systems and ACEpower partner to drive GaN adoption in Chinese EV market GaN Systems Inc of Ottawa, Ontario, Canada (a fabless developer of  gallium nitride-based power switching semiconductors for power conversion and  control applications) has partnered with ACEpower — a Chinese designer and  manufacturer of power supplies, electric vehicle (EV) charging modules, and OBC (onboard charger) products — to expedite the widespread adoption of GaN technology in  electric vehicles. By harnessing GaN Systems’ power semiconductors,  extensive expertise in EV power electronics, and ACEpower’s track record  in high-power system design and high-volume manufacturing capabilities, the  partnership is expected to accelerate the GaN-based electric vehicle power  market in China. GaN power  semiconductors play a pivotal role in realizing the compact size, lightweight,  and high efficiency demanded by the next generation of high-performance  electric vehicles. By harnessing GaN Systems' automotive-grade,  high-performance GaN power transistors alongside ACEpower’s deep expertise in  the power electronics industry, the companies are combining their distinctive  capabilities to unlock the full potential of GaN performance advantages. In  addition to other areas, the partnership will focus on topology optimization  and advanced integrated power modules, and high-frequency magnetics design to  enhance crucial electric vehicle efficiency and power density significantly. “Our  longstanding relationship with GaN Systems, coupled with their unrivaled  expertise in high-reliability, automotive-qualified GaN semiconductors — a  vital component for electric vehicles — brings great business  opportunities in the fast-growth Chinese EV market,” says ACEpower’s CEO Albert  Wang. “Together, we are committed to driving innovation that will revolutionize  electric vehicles, particularly in efficiency and power density,  delivering substantial benefits to the industry.” The  combination tackles fundamental challenges related to traditionally larger,  heavier, inefficient and costlier power systems based on legacy silicon  power transistors. GaN power transistors enable higher efficiency and  power density at a faster switching speed for onboard chargers,  DC/DC converters, and traction inverters. These advances translate into faster  charging, extended driving range, and reduced overall system costs. “Today’s  announcement marks a significant leap in our cooperative efforts with ACEpower  to drive GaN adoption in the Chinese electric vehicle market,” says GaN Systems’  CEO Jim Witham. “This collaboration paves the way for disruptive and  game-changing advancements in next-generation electric vehicles,” he  reckons. “Building upon our strong industry relationships with key players such  as BMW, Toyota and Vitesco, GaN Systems and ACEpower are poised to make a  substantial impact in accelerating GaN adoption across the electric vehicle  platform.” GaN Systems  and ACEpower’s shared aim extends to capturing substantial market value in  emerging sectors such as data centers and electric vehicles. Future  initiatives encompass the joint development of high-power-density GaN-powered  OBCs rated at 6.6kW and 11kW for electric vehicles. 