Kubos’ gains £700,000 Innovate UK grant to develop 5%-efficient red micro-LEDs Micro-LED material technology company  Kubos Semiconductors Ltd (which was spun out of the University of Cambridge in  2017) has won a £700,000 Future Economy Investor Partnerships  (FEIP) grant from UK government innovation agency Innovate UK. The  funding is subject to completing aligned investment led by the Development Bank  of Wales. The firm has also been granted its first process technology  patents and has received its first customer order. The grant is for a 24-month project to achieve 5% efficiency for  red micro-LEDs by deploying the company’s proprietary KubosLED cubic-phase  gallium nitride (GaN) process. Achieving the project’s goal will make  micro-LEDs viable in augmented/virtual-reality (AR/VR) applications by  approximately doubling the efficiency achieved with other process technologies,  it is reckoned. Poor red micro-LED efficiency is currently one of the main  factors constraining the AR/VR market. “We’ve only recently joined the FEIP and Kubos is the first  company we have supported, and they have been awarded this grant,” notes Carl  Griffiths, technology seed fund manager for DBW. “Kubos has demonstrated  it has the right focus on deep tech, the right profile and momentum to  secure the funding. Their exciting new technology has a clear purpose, and the  market opportunity is vast,” he comments. Following completion of the funding round in the autumn, Kubos — as  a fabless semiconductor company — will open a development office in Wales. This  will enable it to continue to benefit from years of collaboration with the  South Wales compound semiconductor cluster, specifically the Compound Semiconductor  Centre (CSC, a partnership between Cardiff University and Cardiff-based epiwafer and substrate maker IQE plc) and the Institute of Compound Semiconductors at Cardiff University,  where the Kubos LEDs are processed and tested. Kubos’ core cubic GaN  process and product technology patent has  now been granted in China, Japan, Singapore and the USA. Its patent portfolio  has also been extended to include granted patents for silicon carbide epitaxy, which is used by Kubos  as a growth substrate. The firm has also won its first customer for its KubosLED material  in red micro-LEDs. “We see huge demand for our technology every time we engage  with potential customers and are delighted to have won our first major customer  and secured further funding to ensure we reach our technology goals,” says CEO  Caroline O’Brien. “These achievements underline the fact that KubosLED material  technology is the leading contender to clear a major bottleneck that’s been  holding back AR/VR adoption.” 