First Solar to invest $1.1bn in fifth US manufacturing facility Cadmium telluride (CdTe) thin-film photovoltaic module maker  First Solar Inc of Tempe, AZ, USA is to build a fifth  manufacturing facility in the USA (in a yet-to-be-determined location),  investing up to $1.1bn in further expanding the country’s capacity to produce  its own solar modules. The planned fully vertically integrated facility is  expected to grow the firm’s nameplate manufacturing capacity by 3.5GW to about  14GW in the USA and 25 GW globally in 2026. To be  completed and commissioned in first-half 2026 (contingent upon obtaining  necessary permits and approvals), the new facility will produce  First Solar’s Series 7 modules, which are expected to be manufactured  with 100% US-made components identified in the current domestic content  guidance issued by the US Department of Treasury. First Solar expects  that, once the new factory is completed and ramped, Series 7 modules will  account for over two thirds of its annual domestic  nameplate capacity. Series 7 modules currently produced at the firm’s  Ohio facility are already manufactured with US-made glass and steel. “This decision  is underpinned by robust fundamentals, including an order backlog of  approximately 78GW, the industry’s strongest balance sheet, a repeatable  vertically integrated manufacturing template, and a proven technology  platform,” notes CEO Mark Widmar. “With this investment, we continue to help  deliver on the promise of the Inflation Reduction Act, which is to create  enduring value for our country,” he adds. “By expanding America’s solar  manufacturing base, and the value chains that support it, we are working to  ensure that the US enters the next decade in a position of strength, fully  capable of producing the technology it needs to complete its transition to a  sustainable energy future.” Over the past  year and including this announcement, First Solar has committed to over  $2.8bn in capital investment and 7.9GW of additional manufacturing capacity in  the USA. The firm had previously announced an approximately $1.3bn investment  in a new 3.5GW manufacturing facility in Alabama and a 0.9GW expansion of its  existing manufacturing footprint in Ohio, both of which are expected to be  completed at the end of 2024. As the largest fully vertically integrated solar  manufacturer in the Western Hemisphere, with 6.3GW of operational capacity  in the USA, First Solar also previously announced an investment of up to  $370m for a dedicated R&D innovation center in Perrysburg, Ohio, which  is expected to be completed in 2024. With more than  2500 staff across the USA, First Solar is already believed to be the largest  employer in America’s solar manufacturing sector. The firm estimates that the  new facility will add over 700 new jobs which, when combined with the 850 new  manufacturing jobs expected to be created in Alabama and Ohio and over 100 new  R&D jobs planned in Ohio, takes its total number of direct jobs in the USA  to more than 4000 people across the country by 2026. 