ams OSRAM’s OSIRE E3731i RGB LED alllows dynamic color and motion effects across hundreds of LEDs ams OSRAM GmbH of Premstätten, Austria and Munich,  Germany has introduced new technology that is said to  greatly simplify the implementation of dynamic, color- and intensity-changing  arrays of hundreds of RGB LEDs in car interior lighting. The new  OSIRE E3731i RGB LED features a digital core that enables low-latency  communication over a standard serial bus interface with any microcontroller.  ams OSRAM has also developed a new Open System Protocol (OSP) running  on the OSIRE E3731i. Using OSP, any microcontroller can transmit  instructions to modulate brightness and color individually to each LED. OSP is  available for use license- and royalty-free by any car, LED, lighting system or  microcontroller manufacturer. By using the  OSIRE E3731i LED and OSP, automotive manufacturers can realize novel  dynamic lighting effects in the car interior. Up to 1000 LEDs can be connected  in a daisy chain, controlled via one microcontroller.  “Dynamic  lighting promises to add value to cars by combining changes in color and  brightness with pulsing, breathing or moving light effects, for decorative or  functional purposes,” says senior product manager Hermann Senninger. “The  OSIRE E3731i and OSP enable dynamic interior lighting to be  implemented with a simpler architecture, fewer components, less wiring and at  lower system cost. These benefits are attracting customers already, and we  expect to see the product deployed in production vehicles soon.” ams OSRAM  says that development of the new intelligent LED draws on its capabilities in  optical technology and IC design and fabrication. The OSIRE E3731i is a  high-performance RGB LED co-packaged with an IC that features three LED drivers,  a serial bus interface supporting the OSP, a temperature sensor and  on-chip memory. Each  intelligent RGB LED is characterized at the factory, and its optical  performance data are stored in the LED’s on-chip memory. This is said to make  it easier for automotive manufacturers to perform end-of-line calibration of  interior lighting systems, and to achieve very high optical uniformity and  consistency across arrays of hundreds of OSIRE E3731i LEDs. The  OSIRE E3731i is now qualified to the latest AEC-Q102 Annex 3  standard. 