Michigan Semiconductor Hands-On Research Experience to help grow US workforce In a program designed to help grow the US semiconductor workforce,  a cohort of college students from across the country is spending summer at the  University of Michigan learning how to make, study and improve advanced  semiconductors. They are working in the Lurie Nanofabrication Facility’s  cleanroom, using industry-standard equipment, and immersing themselves in  research. No prior knowledge of nanofabrication was required for the 10-week  Michigan Semiconductor Hands-On Research Experience (M-SHORE), which is funded  for three years by the US National Science Foundation (NSF), with support from  the Semiconductor Research Corporation (SRC). M-SHORE is designed to broaden  participation in semiconductor-related engineering and encourage participants  to pursue further academic studies in the field. “The goal is to reach students who don’t have access to a facility  like the Lurie Nanofabrication Facility or who have never had this type of  hands-on training,” says Lurie Nanofabrication Facility’s director Becky  Peterson, an associate professor of electrical and computer engineering. “We  want them to gain real experience making and testing devices in a lab — to go  beyond putting together circuits in a class to building the physical layers  that make the devices inside a cleanroom.” The recent chip shortage has highlighted the need for the USA to  expand the domestic semiconductor manufacturing industry and workforce. “We  need to focus on providing better training and expanding the number and types  of students we train, so we can grow the workforce in this field in the United  States,” says Peterson. The students will work with University of Michigan faculty and  graduate students on projects in three areas: “We have learned about these devices, but now we’re learning how  to actually make them,” notes Eyo Achamyeleh, who studies electrical  engineering at Union College in New York, is working on one of the  gallium nitride projects. “My home institution is smaller and less focused on research,”  comments Allan Flores, a senior at California State University, San Marcos,  who is studying applied physics, and said that the experience is leading him to  consider a Ph.D. This year, the student participants come from Embry-Riddle  Aeronautical University; Union College; Sierra College; California  State University, San Marcos; Purdue University-Fort Wayne; State  College of Florida; Case Western Reserve University; and Trine University. Going forward, University of Michigan will work in partnership  with two minority-serving institutions, the University of Texas at El Paso  and Florida International University, to recruit participants and design  collaborative projects. University of Michigan’s Lurie Nanofabrication Facility supports  semiconductor research, education and regional economic development. Faculty members,  students, other institutions, national labs and industry use it for R&D,  training and small-scale manufacturing. Over the past five years, the LNF has  supported more than 900 users, including 95 companies, 150 University of  Michigan faculty members and researchers from 40 other US universities and four  international entities. The effort is supported through the NSF Research Experiences  for Undergraduates (REU) program in partnership with the Semiconductor Research  Corporation. 