Hasselt University and imec spin-off EnFoil unveils thin, flexible CIGS solar panels Hasselt University (UHasselt) and Leuven-based nanoelectronics  research center imec have unveiled the new spin-off EnFoil of Genk,  Belgium, which offers pliable, robust  solar panels only a few millimeters thick that can be integrated on various  surfaces. Initial talks between EnFoil and industry leaders to produce the  solar panels and integrate them onto the roofs of trucks are ongoing. Standard silicon solar panels on rooftops already play an  important role but cannot be placed on every surface due to their weight or  shape. UHasselt and imec have been investigating new types of solar cells that  are easier and cheaper to integrate onto surfaces beyond roofs.  Picture:   EnFoil’s Marc Meuris and Bart Van Winkel. Until now, to integrate solar cells on the surfaces of trucks,  buildings or tents, consumers were limited to standard, typically flat products  of a pre-defined size, and handled the integration themselves. “This mainly  limited the technology to exclusive construction projects, or as an expensive  opt-ins for cars. With EnFoil,  we aim to change this,” says EnFoil’s chief technology officer Marc  Meuris. “We intend to make custom solar foils in any size and shape at a large  scale (mass-customization),” he adds. “The solar foils will be directly  installed or further integrated into our customers’ products. The production  will be done locally and we will guarantee the feasibility and integration of  the final products.” EnFoil (short for ‘Energy Enabling Foil’) combines technologies  and processes that are patented and developed within UHasselt and imec. The  thin-film solar cells are based on copper indium gallium  diselenide (CIGS) technology. “This technology offers lightweight, flexibility  and impact resistance, which is crucial for many new applications,” says  professor Bart Vermang of imo-imomec, imec’s associate lab at UHasselt. “The  solar cells achieve almost the same efficiency as standard panels,” he adds. EnFoil is in ongoing discussions with the industry to bring its  solar foil to market. “A wide array of applications will be possible, such as  integrating the solar cells on swimming pool covers or roof tiles,” says  Meuris. “Currently, we mostly focus on the logistics sector, aiming to  integrate our materials on roofs and sidewalls of trucks to power their sensors  and track & trace systems. It would save the battery and, under  abundant sunlight, the battery could even be charged.” The project has already received support from the European  Research Council through an ERC Proof of Concept. Worth €150,000, the grant aims to bring new  technologies to market. With this, UHasselt will recruit a researcher who will  continue to work with EnFoil on product development. “The ERC jury includes  several industry experts,” notes Vermang. “We therefore see this grant as great  recognition and a sign that the industry believes in our product and sees the  potential to bring it to the market.” 