POET announces sample availability of 100G LR4 optical engines POET Technologies Inc of Toronto,  Ontario, Canada — designer and developer of the POET Optical Interposer, photonic integrated circuits (PICs) and light sources for the data-center, telecom and artificial intelligence (AI) markets — has announced  sample readiness of 100G LR4 Transmit and 100G LR4 Receive  optical engines that are part of its POET Legacy  product family. Three lead customers have received samples and started product  evaluation and two others have requested samples. The POET 100G LR4 Transmit and Receive optical engines are  designed using POET’s Optical Interposer technology and known good  optical components, including high-speed directly  modulated lasers (DMLs) and  photodiodes. The engines meet the IEEE 100GBASE-LR4 standard for transmission  up to 10km and are suitable for use in QSFP28, CFP, CFP2 and other high-density  form factors. 100G LR4 transceivers are a mainstay of the telecom  industry, providing key links from data centers to trunk lines. “We have seen a strong interest in our 100G LR4 optical engines  from a good mix of tier-1 and tier-2 customers that intend to cost reduce their  transceivers to continue supporting the market for the next several years,”  says Raju Kankipati, senior VP & general manager of POET North America.  “Our chip-on-board architecture and passive alignment process simplifies the  module design to achieve a substantial cost reduction. 100G LR4 has a  strong deployment base in both telecom and datacom networks, and we look  forward to supplying our engines to our transceiver customers for the entire  LR4 lifecycle.” The chip-on-board, non-hermetic architecture of POET’s optical engines  eliminates the costly TOSA (transmit optical subassembly) and ROSA (receive  optical subassembly) that are prevalent in most existing 100G LR4  transceivers. The engines are assembled using a standard pick-and-place attach  process without any need for micro-optic lenses and isolators. No active  alignment enables wafer-scale assembly and testing of the engines. The small-size 100G LR4 Transmit optical engine is about  9mm by 4mm and incorporates four DML lasers operating at the LAN-WDM  wavelengths as defined by the IEEE 802.3ba standards. The optical multiplexer,  monitor photodiodes and an FAU (fiber array unit) are included on the  engine. The Receive optical engine is 7.5mm by 4.5mm and  includes high-speed photodiodes, a demultiplexer and FAU. POET expects to complete the qualification of 100G LR4  Transmit and Receive optical engines and start volume production at its  joint venture partner Super Photonics by first-quarter 2024. The  Ethernet transceiver market for 100G LR4 is projected by market research  firm LightCounting  to sustain a steady run rate, with estimated cumulative sales of $1.6bn  over the 2024–2028 period. 