BluGlass’ highlights new GaN laser orders for quantum sensing and surgical applications, and improvements to DFB lasers BluGlass Ltd  of Silverwater, Australia — which develops and manufactures gallium nitride  (GaN) blue laser diodes based on its proprietary low-temperature,  low-hydrogen remote-plasma chemical vapor deposition (RPCVD) technology — has provided an update on activities in  its fiscal fourth-quarter 2023 (to end-June). At the Laser  World of Photonics conference in  Munich, Germany at the end of June, BluGlass presented enhanced  performance data for its GaN lasers. Since the launch of its first laser products  in January, BluGlass has significantly improved light emission, power conversion  efficiencies and voltage across its violet (405nm and 420nm) and blue (450nm)  wavelengths. The 450nm lasers saw the largest improvement, with power conversion efficiencies for single-mode  and multi-mode devices up by more than 55% and 42%, respectively. Enhancements  broaden target applications to include quantum computing,  robotics and biotechnology. In addition to  improving existing products, BluGlass has expanded its GaN laser portfolio,  introducing an ultraviolet 397nm alpha prototype.  UV lasers offer increased power and precision and are used in applications such  as disinfection technologies, quantum sensing  and medical devices. Higher-power single-mode 405nm and 420nm devices are in  development, along with single-mode and multi-mode 450nm and longer-wavelength  devices spanning 470nm, 488nm and 525nm. “Industry  conferences are key to securing new customer orders, increasing awareness of  our growing GaN laser portfolio,  flexible packaging solutions, and custom manufacturing capability. We continue  to engage with potential customers and partners across our target verticals  (quantum, biotech, display (AR/VR), industrial, defence and R&D),” says CEO  Jim Haden. “These higher-performing devices enable use in more demanding  applications while meeting customer needs for wavelength and form-factor  flexibility,” he adds. “Discussions with these companies are progressing, and  we expect many of these will convert to sales, supported by increased adoption  of GaN lasers in advanced applications.” During the  quarter, BluGlass continued to grow its customer book, securing new purchase orders from a quantum photonics pioneer and a leading medical device manufacturer. Customer orders now  encompass BluGlass’ entire GaN laser  product suite, now being tested for eventual deployment in various applications  including novel quantum sensing,  machine vision, 3D printing, and surgical applications.  BluGlass expects to secure new orders this quarter to be shipped in line with  industry-standard 8–12-week shipping timeframes. “Customers  continue to test, integrate and qualify BluGlass’ lasers in their own product  development and applications. These steps pave the way to securing larger,  recurring orders. We are engaged with multiple customers and are working  diligently to convert these to long-term agreements while engaging with  additional prospective customers and partners,” says Haden. “We are receiving  positive feedback on our laser performance from our collaborative customers,  who have been impressed by our momentum, fuelled by both continuous and  breakthrough design enhancements. Their valuable feedback is guiding our  efforts to improve aspects of our fabrication and packaging to better meet  their specific product needs. Progressing agreements from initial discussions  through to qualification and full-scale manufacturing often takes multiple  months, and sometimes even years for novel, advanced and high-power applications,  but early engagement is necessary to become ‘designed-in’ in our customers’  products,” he adds. “Vertical  integration further supports qualification and adoption of our GaN lasers,  enabling us to provide wavelength and form-factor flexibility with emphasis on  quality, consistency and performance.” During the  quarter, BluGlass transferred core downstream manufacturing processes from four  contract manufacturers to its Silicon Valley  production facility in Fremont, CA, USA. The firm is now in the final stages of  integrating its remaining contract manufacturer, responsible for thinning,  cleaving and n-metalization processes. While creating a  new manufacturing supply chain is  complex, BluGlass says that it has transitioned most core processes to Fremont.  A few production and repeatability challenges in parts of the fabrication  process temporarily impacted availability of the firm’s GaN lasers during the  quarter. These challenges, which impacted laser consistency, were related to  photolithography processes, metalization, and packaging processes for non-TO  Can packages. Manufacturing  equipment component unavailability at Fremont resulted in stepper photolithography  equipment for single-mode products being offline for an extended period during  the quarter. The stepper is back online and preventative measures have now been  implemented, including stockpiling spare parts, and securing specialist  servicing and maintenance suppliers. New manufacturing processes, including  secondary qualification and uniformity calibration, have significantly reduced  variability in photolithography steps. BluGlass is also  working with its partners and suppliers to address bonding inconsistencies.  Wafers manufactured with improved packaging designs and operational controls  will be available in mid-September. “While it is  common to experience some challenges in vertically integrating manufacturing  processes, and converting to a new material class,  we have quickly identified and rectified issues as they have arisen. New  manufacturing processes and enhanced operational controls are reducing  variability, and we are now implementing iterative improvements to enhance the  repeatability and performance of our GaN lasers,” notes Haden. “As we continue  to refine our manufacturing supply chain,  we are implementing standard cavity lengths  and product runs to further enhance  consistency and product availability. We have invested in additional  engineering team members at Fremont  to support these improvement and subsequent mitigation efforts, and have  ordered commercial reliability equipment to scale our testing capability and  delivery of products to customers,” he adds. “Vertical  integration provides enormous technical and commercial benefits in both the  short and long term for BluGlass, improving quality and performance of our  launched lasers while accelerating learning cycles and development of new and  next-generation products,” Haden believes. “Operational control and  manufacturing capability is also critical to establishing ourselves as a  partner-of-choice and addressing key customer challenges, such as packaging  flexibility and greater GaN laser  availability.” BluGlass  progressed its development of visible GaN distributed feedback (DFB) lasers,  demonstrating substantial performance improvements with collaboration partner  University of California Santa Barbara  (UCSB). In its latest DFB development, BluGlass demonstrated increased  side-mode suppression ratio by more than 50%, delivering advanced  single-frequency performance at 450nm, and using its proprietary RPCVD  technology extended to longer-wavelength blue devices up to 478nm. Visible DFB  lasers are not commercially available. However, there is growing need for this  highly promising laser technology to provide narrow spectral width and high spectral purity in more compact form factors in order to facilitate advanced  quantum applications. In July, China  announced that it will impose new export restrictions on gallium nitride, commencing 1 August. BluGlass has been in contact with  its primary gallium suppliers, who  have indicated no short-term impact to supply. The firm says it is monitoring  the situation closely with its suppliers and will update the market should  there be any material change. Customer revenue  for fiscal Q4/2023 was $209,000; comprised primarily of foundry services for a  European wafer developer and initial  payments for laser product orders. Cash at end of June was $4.26m, before  receipt of the firm’s significant fiscal-year 2023 R&D rebates, totalling  ~$7m and expected to be received in September. This significant cash injection,  combined with expected business operations, will provide an extended cash  runway, says the firm. Inclusive of  salaries, materials and fabrication costs, R&D expenses were $3.189m (comprising  $3.137m for laser diode product  development and $0.052m for RPCVD development). These costs reflect additional  resources at the Silicon Valley fab  as BluGlass vertically integrates core manufacturing processes while exiting contract manufacturers. Payments to  related parties in fiscal Q4 were $163,000, comprising chair and non-executive  director fees. BluGlass says that  it enters fiscal 2024 fully focused on delivering against its product and  commercialization roadmaps, improving yield and performance, qualifying  products in customer applications, onboarding additional customers, and  securing larger purchase orders of its  GaN lasers. At the same time, the business will complete integration of its  external wafer fab contract  manufacturers into its Silicon Valley  fab and establish regional distribution agreements in key laser jurisdictions  including Europe and the USA. “While our  priority remains validating our product performance and qualifying BluGlass  lasers in customer applications, we are also progressing the development of  higher-powered lasers in our core wavelengths (405-450nm) and next-generation  products. Ongoing manufacturing refinements will continue to enhance laser  performance and yield, enabling us to bring better-quality lasers to market  much faster. Our discussions with potential customers have highlighted the  genuine need for an agile manufacturing partner to address unmet market needs  and deliver brighter, better-performing and longer-wavelength devices,” says  Haden. “We are also  leveraging our RPCVD technology to bring to market novel solutions with  collaboration partners. These include our development of green GaN  vertical-cavity surface-emitting lasers with Ganvix and visible DFB lasers with  UCSB. These solutions are not commercially available, enabling us to further  differentiate ourselves in the GaN laser  market,” he adds. “Specializing in  visible lasers with packaging and manufacturing flexibility, BluGlass’ market  position is unique,” reckons Haden. “Our recent customer engagement continues  to confirm the growing need for an agile and dedicated provider in this market,  and the increasing importance of visible laser diodes  to enable future technologies. Our product strategy remains focused on solving  customers’ challenges and being a GaN laser partner-of-choice.” 