Wolfspeed CEO Gregg Lowe appointed to NC A&T’s Board of Trustees Wolfspeed Inc of Durham, NC, USA – which makes silicon carbide  materials as well as silicon carbide (SiC) and gallium nitride (GaN)  power-switching & RF semiconductor devices – says that CEO Gregg Lowe has been elected to serve on North Carolina Agricultural and Technical State  University’s (NC A&T) Board of  Trustees. NC A&T is the USA’s  top-ranked historically black college or university (HBCU). “North Carolina A&T is proud of our  continued strong partnership with Wolfspeed and the appointment of CEO Gregg  Lowe to our Board of Trustees,” says NC A&T  chancellor Harold L. Martin Sr. “Gregg’s leadership and extensive  science and technology background will serve as a vital resource for our  prestigious university. I look forward to working with him as we provide new  opportunities for our students to pursue the next generation of careers in the  green economy, drive innovation and look to solve the problems of both today  and tomorrow,” he adds. “I’m eager to  further strengthen our relationship while working together to usher in the next  generation of scientists, technologists and innovators,” says Lowe. Wolfspeed and  NC A&T share a history of  partnership and collaboration. In 2020, Wolfspeed committed $4m over five years to the HBCU, the single largest  donation in the university’s history at that time, to create the Wolfspeed  Endowed Scholars Program. The two  entities worked together to establish comprehensive education and training  curricula and research and innovation programs. This partnership has opened  opportunities for undergraduate and graduate credentials in silicon carbide semiconductor manufacturing, as  well as training and career advancement  programs for existing semiconductor manufacturing workers. During  President Biden’s visit to Wolfspeed headquarters in late March, Wolfspeed  announced the continuation of this collaboration with their intent to apply for  CHIPS and Science Act funding to build a new R&D facility on North Carolina A&T’s campus. The R&D  facility will be focused on silicon carbide  to support the next generation of compound semiconductors. 