CSA Catapult to open Future Telecoms Hub in Autumn at the Bristol & Bath Science Park As part of its plans to support industry across the UK, in Autumn Compound Semiconductor  Applications (CSA) Catapult is to open a Future Telecoms Hub at the Bristol & Bath Science Park in  Bristol. Established in  2017 by UK Government agency Innovate UK (which provides funding and support  for business innovation as part of UK Research and Innovation), CSA Catapult  is a not-for-profit organization focused on accelerating the adoption of  compound semiconductors in three key areas (the road to Net Zero, future  telecoms and intelligent sensing). Headquartered in Newport, South Wales,  it works across the UK in a range of industry sectors, from automotive to  medical, and from digital communications to aerospace. Supported by Innovate UK through a £2.5m investment, the  Future Telecoms Hub will allow CSA Catapult to deepen and accelerate  its expertise in telecoms in line with the UK Government’s plans for telecoms  diversification. Work at the Future Telecoms Hub will be primarily focussed on the  energy efficiency and security of telecoms hardware — factors that have  become critically important in developing future networks that are robust and  resilient and are less impactful on the environmental. The Future Telecoms Hub will deliver translational research and  provide access to commercial testbeds that improve the speed, energy efficiency  and security of networks through CSA Catapult’s expertise in radio frequency  (RF), photonics and quantum technologies. The initial focus at the Future Telecoms Hub will be on improving  the performance of power amplifiers — one of the biggest inefficiencies in  existing telecoms networks — through load-pull testing and design optimization. Collaborative research projects with Cardiff University and the  University of Bristol will also be undertaken at the Future Telecoms Hub. The new base in Bristol will complement CSA Catapult’s  existing operations at its Innovation Centre in Newport, South Wales  and provide access to a wider range of expertise and resources. Bristol is home  to several major technology companies and research institutions and has a  thriving innovation ecosystem in the aerospace & defence industries, where  telecoms hardware is routinely used. The Future Telecoms Hub will also link CSA Catapult  activities across the CSconnected compound semiconductor cluster in South Wales  and the Western Gateway, the UK’s first pan-regional partnership that  brings together local leaders from two countries. As part of its 5G Supply Chain Diversification Strategy, the  UK government has set an ambition to provide most of the UK population with a  5G signal by 2027 and to create a more diverse and competitive supply chain  for telecoms networks. Driven by the growth of 5G networks and the adoption of  next-generation technologies such as artificial intelligence (AI) and the  Internet of Things (IoT), the global telecom equipment market was  $538.9bn in 2021 and is forecasted to rise at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR)  of 6.9% to $967.9bn by 2030. CSA Catapult is already engaged in several projects helping  to build safe and secure sovereign supply chains in the UK’s telecoms  hardware space, such as ORanGaN and Secure5G. The Secure 5G project is building a flexible platform that will  enable companies to roll out and maintain their own quantum-safe private networks,  with targeted applications for Industry 4.0, mobile edge computing (MEC),  the Internet of Things (IoT) and highly secure environments, such as  defence. The ORanGaN project is looking to develop a sovereign UK supply chain,  manufacturing processes and packaging solutions for radio frequency  gallium nitride (RF-GaN) devices that are critical to 5G communications  systems electronics hardware. Devices made using compound semiconductors will increasingly  be at the heart of a new breed of advanced electronics needed to meet demand  for digital services. Networks which exploit compound semiconductors will  have lower latency, greater flexibility, even greater capacity and provide  affordable access for everyone. “The opening of our Future Telecoms Hub is a significant milestone  in the Catapult’s journey as we expand our activities across the UK,” states CSA Catapult’s  CEO Martin McHugh. “Bristol has an established network of innovative companies  and research institutions located within and around the city, as well as strong  links with partners across the Western Gateway, so it was a natural fit for us  to place our future telecoms capability here,” he adds. “With the widespread  adoption of 5G and our increasing dependence on connected technologies, the  demand for safe, secure and reliable telecoms infrastructure has never been  greater. The Future Telecoms Hub will enable our partners to bring new  telecoms technologies to market and allow us to continue to build supply chains,  secure jobs and grow the UK economy.” “This new investment by Compound Semiconductor Applications  Catapult will connect this national capability to opportunities across the  telecoms industry and their applications in support of business innovation in  the South West of England,” comments Dean Cook, director – Place and  Levelling Up, Innovate UK. “The Western Gateway area is home to industry with 55% of  global market share in developing certain types of compound semiconductors,  making this a vital sector for the UK,” notes Katherine Bennett CBE, chair  of the Western Gateway. “Our area is also a digital innovation powerhouse  and it is great to see support for industry growing across our area with the  opening of a new site in Bristol with a Future Telecoms Hub.” 