CSA Catapult Scotland to offer improved design and optimization capabilities in power electronics and packaging for high-power industries As part of its plans to support industry across the UK, Compound  Semiconductor Applications (CSA) Catapult is to have a presence in Scotland for  the first time. Established in  2017 by UK Government agency Innovate UK (which provides funding and  support for business innovation as part of UK Research and Innovation), CSA Catapult  is a not-for-profit organization focused on accelerating the adoption of  compound semiconductors in three key areas (the road to Net Zero, future  telecoms and intelligent sensing). Headquartered in Newport, South Wales,  it works across the UK in a range of industry sectors, from automotive to  medical, and from digital communications to aerospace. Working in partnership with the University of Strathclyde and the  National Manufacturing Institute Scotland (NMIS), the new office in Scotland  will expand CSA Catapult’s expertise in power electronics and  packaging work from the automotive and industrial segments to high-power  industries such as energy, aerospace, marine and rail. Together with partners, CSA Catapult Scotland aims to offer  an improved design optimization and manufacturing process for power electronics  and packaging, with a specific focus on high-power industries such as transport  and energy. Specifically, the work undertaken at the CSA Catapult Scotland  office will focus on power module design and manufacturing scale-up  processes, enabling seamless transitions from research to design to development  and reducing the time for products and innovations to reach market. Due to open this Summer, the CSA Catapult Scotland office  will be based at the University of Strathclyde’s Technology Innovation Centre  in Glasgow, providing a link between the work undertaken at CSA Catapult’s  Innovation Centre in Newport and the Catapult’s network of partners in  Scotland. The University of Strathclyde and NMIS are established in the  high-power electronics industry and have relationships with some of the leading  names in the industry, which should help to drive CSA Catapult’s mission  of supporting clusters of excellence within the industry and building supply chains. CSA Catapult Scotland has two focus areas, concentrating on a  manufacturing readiness level (MRL) and a technology readiness level (TRL). It  will help customers to scale up their prototypes to a level where they can be  manufactured at scale, while the TRL work will be focused on optimizing power electronics  for high-power applications in the energy and transport markets. Staff at CSA Catapult Scotland will initially work on the  virtual design of power packaging modules and assembly, while at the same time  building up relationships with customers and companies across the cluster in  Scotland. Helping to control and transform electrical power through  switching devices in a wide range of industries such as aerospace, automotive,  energy, healthcare and space, the global power electronics market was  $52.7bn in 2022 and is projected to grow from $61.94bn in 2023 to $153.3bn by  2030. The energy industry is expected to capture a sizeable share of this growth  due to the rising acceptance of power electronics devices in renewable energy  systems. Wide-bandgap compound semiconductors such as gallium nitride  and silicon carbide will be more frequently used in power electronics  due to their higher switching speeds, lower current loss and higher  power density, as well as enabling the fabrication of more compact  devices. CSA Catapult’s existing power electronics expertise is  said to be one of the UK’s most advanced and comprehensive modelling,  characterization, integration and validation facilities for power electronics  innovation. This is coupled with an advanced packaging lab with cutting-edge  equipment and techniques in assembling customers’ prototypes, which can be used  to verify a design anywhere from the proof-of-concept stage up to a final  production unit. “Expanding our capabilities to Scotland will allow us to engage  more closely with an extremely strong cluster of companies and research  institutes at the forefront of compound semiconductor technologies,” says CSA Catapult’s  CEO Martin McHugh. “Furthermore, our activities in Scotland will support our  ambitions to expand into both lower and higher TRL and MRL activities to reduce  the risks of successful translational research and reduce the time for products  and innovations to reach market,” he adds. “We are extremely delighted to be  working with the University of Strathclyde and the National Manufacturing  Institute Scotland, who are already well established across the region, on  expanding our capabilities, building new supply chains and helping the UK  economy grow.” “We are delighted to welcome the CSA Catapult to our campus in the  heart of Glasgow City Innovation District. By co-locating with Strathclyde  and NMIS, the CSA Catapult will be well placed to access our  sector-leading power electronics and electrical systems research,  advanced manufacturing innovation capabilities and facilities and our strong  relationships with industry partners,” says professor Sir Jim McDonald, principal  & vice-chancellor of the University of Strathclyde and chair of the NMIS  board. “By establishing these collaborative links, we can accelerate the  deployment of process and product innovation in the energy and transportation  sectors.” 