Silicon-based InAs quantum dot laser operation above 150°C Institute of Semiconductors and University  of Chinese Academy of Sciences in China have claimed record-high continuous wave (CW) operating  temperatures of up to 150°C  for 1.3 μm wavelength  indium arsenide (InAs) quantum dot  (QD) lasers directly grown on on-axis silicon (001) substrates [Zunren Lv et al, Optics Express, v31,  p24173, 2023]. The devices on silicon (Si) also  demonstrated ultra-high thermal stability with effectively constant threshold  currents and slope efficiencies over wide temperature ranges. The team attributes their results to a  combination of a low threading dislocation  density (TDD) gallium arsenide  (GaAs) buffer layers, a high-gain QD active region, and p-type modulation  doping. The researchers comment: “We believe that  this work demonstrates the great prospect of Si-based direct epitaxial QD  lasers in realizing low power consumption,  miniaturization and low-cost silicon photonics  chips, which provides a strong driving force for the development of low-cost  and high-performance silicon photonic  integrated circuits  (PICs).” The team foresees prospects for low cost,  low power and high integration of QD laser diodes (LDs) allied with  complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor (CMOS) electronic processing units for  high-capacity data transmission,  high-performance optical computing  and high-precision light detection and ranging (LiDAR). Stability of the laser diodes at high temperature is  particularly critical when such devices are placed next to heat-generating  high-speed CMOS computer processing units (CPUs). The researchers used molecular beam epitaxy (MBE) on gallium phosphide on silicon (GaP/Si)  templates to produce the QD laser materials (Figure 1). The templates were free of anti-phase  domains.  Figure 1: (a) InAs/GaAs QD laser  epitaxial structure on on-axis Si (001) substrate. (b) Comparison of x-ray rocking curves of 1.6 μm GaAs buffer layers grown by two-step and  three-step temperature processes. (c) Electronic channel contrast imaging  (ECCI) of 3 μm GaAs  buffer interface. (d) Atomic force  microscope (AFM) image of 3 μm  GaAs buffer interface within 5 μmx5 μm field. 