CSA Catapult establishing presence in North East England, targeting telecoms, space and defence As part of its plans to support industry across the UK, Compound Semiconductor  Applications (CSA) Catapult is to move into an office in the North East of  England, at North East Technology Park (NETPark) in Sedgefield, County Durham. Established in  2017 by UK Government agency Innovate UK (which provides funding and  support for business innovation as part of UK Research and Innovation), CSA Catapult  is a not-for-profit organization focused on accelerating the adoption of  compound semiconductors in three key areas (the road to Net Zero, future  telecoms and intelligent sensing). Headquartered in Newport, South Wales,  it works across the UK in a range of industry sectors, from automotive to  medical, and from digital communications to aerospace. Establishing a presence in the North East of England region  should help CSA Catapult to deliver benefits to companies and research  institutes that are actively involved in compound semiconductor  technologies across a range of industries, from telecoms to satellites communications  and defence. The North East is home to the North East Advanced  Material Electronics (NEAME) cluster, which has “a mission to highlight and  promote the region as a centre of excellence for advanced compound semiconductor  technology design and manufacture.” NEAME aims to raise the region’s profile  and contribute £447m gross value-added by 2026, with the potential to create  and support about 4500 jobs. CSA Catapult North East will work with those companies  to grow the cluster and bring new compound semiconductor-based  technologies to market, building local and national supply chains along  the way. It will also offer direct digital access to the prototyping  capabilities in Newport, South Wales. CSA Catapult will be co-locating with the Satellite Applications  Catapult, with the two organizations already entering into a partnership  agreement to help support the growth of the cluster. The office at NETPark is  already home to a Space Enterprise Lab, which provides members of the space  community with access to resources, virtual demonstrations and Catapult  experts, as well as technology including touch screens, virtual reality  (VR) headsets and conferencing facilities. Managed by Business Durham (the Business Support Service for  Durham County Council), NETPark is a UK science park that provides  infrastructure, collaborative opportunities and support for science,  engineering and technology companies at every stage from concept to  commercialization. CSA Catapult is already engaged in several projects in the  region, helping to accelerate the development of new technologies through its  testing capabilities and bringing companies together to build supply chains. The £2.4m ORanGaN project, of which CSA Catapult is a partner,  includes North East-based companies Inex Microtechnology Ltd and  Viper RF Ltd and aims to develop a sovereign UK supply chain,  manufacturing processes and packaging solutions for radio-frequency gallium nitride  (RF-GaN) devices which are critical to 5G communications systems electronics  hardware. “By firmly establishing ourselves in the North East, our aim  is to support the existing cluster of leading companies and research institutes  by helping to build UK-wide supply chains and to encourage coordination  and growth,” says CSA Catapult’s CEO Martin McHugh. “We look forward to  working in tandem with NEAME and the Satellite Applications Catapult to raise  the profile of the region and help support skills, jobs and growth. Through the  wealth of compound semiconductor companies already operating in the  region, the North East is already involved in world-leading innovation and  we look forward to supporting this with the expertise and resources of CSA  Catapult,” he adds. “The North East, through its richness of organizations and skills,  presents tremendous opportunities for space applications and compound semiconductor  technologies,” comments Lucy Edge, chief operating officer at Satellite  Applications Catapult. “Through this partnership the CSA Catapult and  Satellite Applications Catapult will help leverage these by boosting industry  collaboration, and bringing forward transformative solutions that will  revolutionize major sectors like communications and defence,” she adds. “This strategic move will not only bolster our region’s compound semiconductor  ecosystem but also foster collaboration, innovation, and the growth of supply chains,”  believes Business Durham’s managing director Sarah Slaven. “We look  forward to working closely with CSA Catapult and supporting their efforts  to elevate the North East’s profile as a centre of excellence for advanced  compound semiconductor technologies,” she adds. “The NEAME cluster is working together with all stakeholders to  help address the opportunities and challenges for the companies in the region.  We look forward to discussing how CSA Catapult might be able to support,” says  a spokesperson for NEAME. “Compound semiconductors are a critical part of a number of  next-generation defence and security applications that Leonardo is working on,  in the UK and with international partners. This includes photodetectors for  advanced imaging, as well as novel communications and space research  technologies,” notes Simon Harwood, UK capability & innovation director at  Leonardo. “We are therefore extremely pleased to welcome CSA Catapult to the  North East and look forward to working together to strengthen the cluster  by driving investment and innovation, building strong links between the  Catapult and our site in Newcastle and upskilling the workforce across the  region.” 