CSA Catapult expands across the UK to South West & North East England and Scotland Compound Semiconductor Applications  (CSA) Catapult in Newport, South Wales  is expanding across the UK to Bristol, the North East of England, and  Scotland. Established in  2017 by UK Government agency Innovate UK (which provides funding and  support for business innovation as part of UK Research and Innovation), CSA Catapult  is a not-for-profit organization focused on accelerating the adoption of  compound semiconductors in three key areas (the road to Net Zero, future  telecoms and intelligent sensing). Headquartered in South Wales, it works  across the UK in a range of industry sectors, from automotive to medical, and  from digital communications to aerospace. CSA Catapult hence plays a leading role in the UK’s compound semiconductor  ecosystem, helping companies fully embrace compound semiconductor  technology and bring their innovations to market. With the support of Innovate UK, this Autumn CSA Catapult will  open a Future Telecoms Hub at the Bristol and Bath Science Park in the South West  of England. The Catapult has identified significant opportunities for growth in  the UK telecoms hardware sector. The Future Telecoms Hub will support companies  developing telecoms hardware. The Future Telecoms Hub will allow CSA Catapult to deepen and  accelerate its expertise in telecoms by building technology platforms and  ecosystems for telecoms hardware. Driven by the growth of 5G networks and the adoption of  next-generation technologies such as artificial intelligence (AI) and the Internet of Things (IoT), the global telecom equipment market is  forecasted to rise at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 6.9% from $538.9bn in 2021 to $967.9bn by 2030. CSA Catapult will also establish a presence in the North East  of England, where there is a cluster of companies working on telecoms,  satellite communications and defence technologies. Based at NETPark in  Sedgefield, County Durham, CSA Catapult North East will work  with companies in the area as a neutral convener. It aims to facilitate market  adoption of new compound semiconductor-based technologies, and build  supply chains in telecoms, satellite communications and defence. CSA Catapult North East will offer direct digital access  to the prototyping capabilities in Newport, reducing the time and cost to  produce advanced semiconductor modules to serve these markets. CSA Catapult has entered into a partnership agreement to  deliver a co-ordinated program with the Satellite Applications Catapult to help  support the cluster’s ambitions for growth. It will have a presence at the  Space Enterprise Lab and work closely with Satellite Applications Catapult. Opening this Autumn based at the University of Strathclyde’s Technology  Innovation Centre in Glasgow, CSA Scotland will work with the regional  cluster of companies developing technologies for high-power electrification in  markets such as energy, marine, rail and off-highway. CSA Scotland will draw on the expertise of Strathclyde  University and the National Manufacturing Institute Scotland (NMIS), offering  direct digital access to CSA Catapult facilities in South Wales,  allowing companies to rapidly design and prototype advanced power electronic  modules for these markets. “CSA Catapult’s purpose is to deliver long-term benefit to the UK  economy and accelerate UK economic growth in industries where applying compound  semiconductors creates a competitive advantage,” says CSA Catapult’s CEO  Martin McHugh. “Expanding across the UK means we can support more companies and  bring more products to market through our technology expertise, supply chain  creation and building compound semiconductor clusters. Setting up new  centers in Bristol, Scotland and the North East will allow us to grow the  ecosystem to support these new and emerging technologies in the UK,” he adds.  “We will collaborate with universities, start-ups and larger companies to build  new UK-based supply chains in telecoms hardware. We want to support and  attract companies leading R&D in the UK. These critical markets, using  compound semiconductors, will create significant jobs and growth in the  future,” he believes. “Innovate UK is committed to supporting growth and increased  productivity across the UK, with the Catapults having a significant role in  developing local economies,” states Dean Cook, director – Place and Levelling Up,  Innovate UK. “This new investment by Compound Semiconductor  Applications Catapult will build on its foundations in South Wales  and connect this national capability to opportunities across the telecoms  industry and their applications in support of business innovation in Scotland,  the North East of England and the South West of England.” 