ams OSRAM launches intelligent multi-pixel EVIYOS 2.0 LED for precision adaptive headlights After  10 years of continuous  engineering development, ams OSRAM GmbH  of Premstätten, Austria and Munich, Germany has launched EVIYOS 2.0  in volume production, a new type of intelligent multi-pixel LED that  enables fully adaptive, dynamic headlight operation and image projection in automotive  forward lighting. EVIYOS 2.0  can selectively illuminate the road ahead to maximize the driver’s view in  high-beam mode without creating the glare typically experienced by other road  users. With a pixel pitch of 40µm, the chip’s 25,600 individually  controllable LEDs can also project high-resolution images on to the road  surface, for example to display warning symbols to the driver or other road  users, or to guide the driver past obstacles. Use of EVIYOS 2.0  is said to improve road safety by increasing the time for drivers to react to  hazards that would be invisible or partially hidden with conventional  headlights. The superior view of the road also promises to transform the  driver’s experience of the road at night, making night driving easier and  safer. Until now,  many automotive safety features have been designed to keep the driver and  passengers inside the vehicle safe. With EVIYOS 2.0, through the  ability to project images on the road at night, the car communicates in new  ways both to the driver but also to others in the car’s surroundings. For example,  headlights based on EVIYOS 2.0 can project a snowflake symbol on to the road  surface to warn of icy or slippery conditions, helping to heighten awareness of  danger and hence reducing the risk of accidents. “High-resolution  adaptive forward lighting is set to become the next big differentiator for  vehicles from the world’s premium brands,” says Wolfgang Lex, senior VP automotive.  “EVIYOS 2.0  is the enabler of the most precisely controllable forward lighting  systems, and is a major new value creator for the automotive industry.” The design of  EVIYOS 2.0  draws on multiple innovations in chip design and fabrication. The 25,600 pixels  are fabricated in a monolithic µ-LED chip array, which enables ams OSRAM  to achieve what is claimed to be exceptionally high uniformity of color and  brightness. EVIYOS 2.0  consists of the multi-pixel emitter and a driver that individually controls the  operation of each of the 25,600 LEDs. In Adaptive Driving Beam  systems, the multi-pixel headlamp is mounted in a lensed headlamp assembly, and  combined with an intelligent camera for scanning the scene in front of the  vehicle. This enables the headlamp in high-beam mode to dynamically switch off  enough LEDs to avoid glare for other road users while maximizing the driver’s  view of the road. Dynamic control of individual LEDs also enables the headlight  to project accurately along curves, extending the driver’s view of the road  ahead.  Picture: Schematic illustration for the EVIYOS 2.0. Image: ams OSRAM. EVIYOS 2.0  is a high-output, high-efficiency automotive light source  that enables energy saving in vehicles: only those LEDs are energized that are  required to maximize the driver’s view safely, so light is not wasted. 