Qorvo participates in launch of US Cybersecurity Labeling Program for Consumer Technology Qorvo Inc of Greensboro, NC, USA (which  provides core technologies and RF solutions for mobile, infrastructure and  defense applications) has  participated in the launch of the US Cybersecurity Labeling Program for  Consumer Technology. The event in Washington DC  included senior representatives from IoT device makers, industry associations,  standards bodies and US government agencies in support of the May 2021 Executive Order 14028 on improving the nation’s cybersecurity. “We are actively involved with industry  alliances that define global standards and prioritize IoT device security,  enabling us to design our products with full compliance to the latest and most  rigorous requirements,” said Eric Creviston, senior VP & president of Qorvo’s  Connectivity and Sensors Group, who participated in an executive roundtable at  the event. “Qorvo solutions are embedded across  a broad spectrum of IoT applications, and we implement advanced security in  these areas to protect the integrity of the network and the end devices.” The US Cybersecurity Labeling Program for Consumer Technology is  intended to harmonize security standards across the entire IoT ecosystem. The  program incentivizes manufacturers and retailers to incorporate advanced  cybersecurity functionality into their products, reducing barriers to consumer  adoption. Major companies and organizations participating in the launch  included Amazon, Google, LG Electronics USA, Samsung, Sony, the Connectivity  Standards Alliance (CSA) and the US Chamber of Commerce. Qorvo works closely with the CSA to define  the latest standards for Matter, Bluetooth Low Energy, Zigbee and Thread. As a member of  the FiRa Consortium and Car Connectivity Consortium, Qorvo applies  ultra-wideband (UWB) location capabilities for secure transactions and secure  automotive digital key applications, respectively. Qorvo’s connectivity  solutions are compliant with the security requirements of automotive digital key/connected car, building/home access, secure  transactions and other IoT  applications. 