Wolfspeed promotes Priya Almelkar to senior VP, IT & chief information officer Wolfspeed Inc  of Durham, NC, USA – which makes silicon carbide materials as well as silicon carbide (SiC) and gallium nitride  (GaN) power-switching & RF semiconductor devices – has promoted Priya  Almelkar to senior vice president, IT & chief information officer.  He succeeds David Costar and becomes the fifth female member of Wolfspeed’s  senior leadership team. “Over her  two-and-a-half-year tenure with Wolfspeed, Priya has consistently showcased  exceptional technical expertise and inspiring leadership skills,” comments CEO  Gregg Lowe. “Her invaluable contributions have significantly enhanced our company’s  information systems and processes. Her promotion not only recognizes her skills  and contributions, but also reinforces our belief in the power of diverse  perspectives and experiences in driving innovation and success.” As VP of IT  manufacturing operations, Almelkar played a pivotal role in driving Wolfspeed’s  transition to automation, empowering its analytics capabilities while ensuring  data integrity and accuracy. This data-based transition has enabled enhanced  tracking of customer deliveries, valuable market and competitor insights, and  has improved operational efficiency. “Wolfspeed’s  ambitious growth strategy presents ample opportunities to improve IT process efficiency  and compliance,” says Almelkar. “I am thrilled to continue collaborating with  such knowledgeable and entrepreneurial colleagues to strengthen our digital  footprint.” Almelkar has over  25 years of experience in leading core IT functions and implementing large-scale  digital transformations. Prior to joining Wolfspeed, she spent six years  at GlobalFoundries, where she held several positions, including head of digital transformation  and head of infrastructure. Earlier in her career, she excelled in program  management, information security and solution delivery engineering.  Almelkar also serves as a sponsor of the Asian American and Pacific Islander  (AAPI) Employee Resource Group at Wolfspeed, exemplifying the firm’s commitment  to diversity and inclusion. In acknowledgement of her leadership and service to  the industry, she has been recognized by the National Association of  Manufacturers. 