Cree LED unveils fourth generation of XLamp XP-G product family Cree LED Inc  of Durham, NC, USA (a company of SMART Global Holdings of Milpitas, CA) has unveiled the fourth generation of its  XLamp XP-G product family. With more than 2 billion XP-G LEDs shipped to date, the  XP-G4 incorporates the latest advances in high-power LED technology for  improved optical performance while delivering what is claimed to be leading  efficacy. The XP-G4 also has a maximum drive current  of 3000mA, which is a first for the XP-G family of LEDs. The fourth generation of XP-G products introduces an optimized  optical profile designed to maximize on‑axis light output and yield substantial  improvements over the previous XP-G3 LEDs. These enhancements include a smaller  light-emitting surface (LES) and up to 69% higher intensity, resulting in  tighter beam angles and higher  candela. The XP-G4 delivers what is claimed to be exceptional color-over-angle  performance and a 70° cutoff which  dramatically improves coupling efficiency with secondary optics compared with  all competing high-power LEDs, the firm adds. “This fourth generation offers a remarkable 41% increase in  maximum light output compared to  XP-G3 Standard, reaching a maximum of 1130 lumens,”  says president Joe Clark. “This notable performance, combined with the latest  optical system, delivers a ‘no compromise’  solution for both new and existing systems alike,” he adds. “COAST has a 100+ year history of product innovation. As we design  our next generation of portable lighting products, we will use Cree LED’s new  XP-G4 LED based on its clear product advantages,” says Todd Ernst, VP product at Cree LED customer COAST Products.  “This new LED family offers both higher intensity and higher maximum current in the familiar XP-G footprint,  allowing us to improve the performance of our products.” The latest generation of XP-G products is optimized for a wide  range of both indoor and outdoor directional lighting applications requiring  precise light control, good color over angle  and long-term reliability. The new XP-G generation is available in correlated  color temperatures (CCTs) ranging  from 1800K to 6500K and color rendering  index (CRI), including 70, 80 and 90 CRI. Additionally, broadcast color options  featuring Television Lighting  Consistency Index (TLCI) will also be offered. 