NTT achieves 300GHz-band high-speed data transmission with beamforming At June’s 2023 IEEE MTT-S International Microwave Symposium (IMS)  in San Diego, CA, USA, Tokyo-based NTT Corp and researchers at the  Tokyo Institute of Technology said that they have demonstrated a phased-array  transmitter module to enable instantaneous ultra-high-capacity data transmission  to mobile receivers. The researchers achieved the first wireless data  transmission via beamforming in the 300GHz band, which is expected to be  utilized in the realization of sixth-generation (6G) communications. In 6G wireless communications systems, ultra-high-speed wireless  communications are expected to be achieved by utilizing the 300GHz band, which  has the advantage of being able to use a wide frequency range. On the  other hand, it faces the problem of large path loss during signal  propagation through space. Beamforming technology is being studied to overcome  this problem. Beamforming concentrates and directs radio energy toward the  receiving device. In 5G wireless systems that use radio waves in the 28GHz and  39GHz bands, beamforming has been realized with CMOS integrated circuits.  On the other hand, CMOS ICs alone lack sufficient output power in the  300GHz band. Combining CMOS ICs with III-V compound semiconductor  ICs, capable of high output power, is therefore being attempted around the  world to achieve beamforming in the 300GHz band. However, because high output power  is prevented by the large energy loss occurring inside the III-V IC  and in the connection between the III-V IC and the CMOS IC,  high-speed wireless data transmission by beamforming has not been achieved  until now. NTT has developed indium phosphide (InP) ICs that integrate  its proprietary high-output power amplifier circuit and antenna circuit.  This is enabled by NTT’s proprietary InP-based heterojunction bipolar transistor  (InP HBT) technology. Tokyo Tech has succeeded in fabricating a highly scaled  CMOS IC containing frequency conversion and control circuits. NTT and  Tokyo Tech have now developed a compact four-element phased-array  transmitter module by mounting the CMOS IC and InP IC on the same  printed circuit board. With a steering range of 36°,  maximum data rate of 30Gbps and communication distance of 50cm, this  transmitter module has achieved the first high-speed wireless data transmission  in the 300GHz band using beamforming (Figure 1).  Figure 1: (Left) Beamforming using  phased-array wireless device. (Right) Comparison of previously reported  transmission with beamforming wireless devices and this achievement. The following two technologies made the beamforming and high-speed  wireless data transmission possible. 1. Design of 300GHz-band high-output power amplifier circuit
   NTT and Tokyo Tech have designed a power amplifier circuit  that achieves high output power in the 300GHz band and realized its  fabrication by using NTT’s proprietary InP HBT technology. For the power amplifier  circuit, high output power is achieved by combining electrical power output  from multiple amplifier elements using a low-loss power combiner. The  circuit amplifies the signals output from the CMOS IC and radiates the  radio wave to the receiving device from the antenna packaged on the same  chip. NTT and Tokyo Tech’s achievement enables the delivery of high output power  to the receiving device, which is needed for high-speed data transmission  (Figure 2).  Figure 2: The newly developed 300GHz-band  phased-array transmitter and the transmission experiment. 2. High-frequency band low-loss mounting technology
   Conventionally, to connect different types of ICs for the 300GHz  band, each IC is mounted on a waveguide module, and the modules are connected  together. However, this approach has the problem of energy loss when radio waves  pass through the waveguides. NTT and Tokyo Tech’s achievement is said to  overcome this problem through flip-chip bonding of the CMOS IC and the InP IC  and connecting them using metal bumps of several tens of microns in size. This  packaging approach reduces connection loss and achieves high output power 
   (Figure 3).  Figure 3: Exploded-view diagram of 300GHz  band phased-array transmitter and photo of the chip. Short-distance mobile communication devices are expected to be  deployed in 6G networks in the future. NTT and Tokyo Tech’s technology  promises to expand these applications, such as interactive kiosks and  femtocells. The developed technology demonstrated one-dimensional beamforming.  NTT and Tokyo Tech are working on demonstrating two-dimensional beamforming  with a 2D array and extending the communication distance by increasing the  number of arrays. NTT and Tokyo Tech are also engaged in the development  of receiver modules to meet the needs of 6G applications, and in the practical  implementation of wireless communication with transmission capacity ten-fold  greater than is available currently. 