Oxford Instruments launches high-rate ALD research system UK-based Oxford Instruments has launched the PlasmaPro ASP,  a high-rate atomic layer deposition (ALD) research system within its  Atomfab product range. The PlasmaPro ASP benefits from a new patented  remote-plasma source design, optimized chamber geometry and wafer stage  bias for ion energy control. These features combine to deliver three times  faster ALD rate, low resistivity and high-Tc  superconducting nitride films for quantum technology, the initial application  focus for the launch. The plasma source design involved a partnership with  Eindhoven University of Technology (TU/e), which received a development module to  study the plasma parameter space and confirm the high-rate low-damage  source characteristics. The research paper published following the joint  development work with TU/e was awarded best paper at the American Vacuum  Society’s 22nd International Conference  on Atomic Layer Deposition (AVS ALD/ALE 2022) conference. Oxford Instruments’ collaboration with TU/e has  continued through to process development, where TU/e has been serving as a  PlasmaPro ASP application development accelerator for quantum and additional  applications for the past year. “This system is an excellent addition to our existing ALD  tool set from Oxford Instruments, as it distinguishes itself in terms of  productivity and plasma capability,” comments professor Erwin Kessels, chair  of  Plasma & Materials Processing  (PMP) group at TU/e. “Hence it provides some unique opportunities for our  research in the field of electronics, photonics and quantum technology,” he  adds. “We have experienced high pre-launch interest from the  market for the PlasmaPro ASP for superconducting quantum materials. The  PlasmaPro ASP is designed to address key quantum challenges with an innovative  high-rate source design and high machine up-time, as well as an intuitive  software user interface called PTIQ,” says Dr Russ Renzas, Quantum  Technologies market manager, Oxford Instruments Plasma Technology,  Americas. “With the source design derived from our Atomfab ALD  production product, the PlasmaPro ASP retains process speed and  robustness, with the inclusion of additional hardware to increase flexibility,  which offers a unique solution to the quantum market to speed up development  cycles.” Oxford Instruments is attending the American Vacuum Society’s 23rd  International Conference on Atomic  Layer Deposition (AVS ALD/ALE 2023) in Bellevue (East Seattle),  WA, USA (23–26 July). The Oxford Instruments Plasma Technology  team are available at the company’s booth to talk about the PlasmaPro ASP  and share its latest atomic-scale processing solutions for quantum and other  developing technologies. 