Improving micron-scale AlGaInP red LED performance University of California Santa Barbara (UCSB) in the USA and  Seoul Viosys Co Ltd of South Korea have used a combination  of thermal annealing, chemical treatment, and passivation, to reduce  performance degradation in micron-scale aluminium gallium indium  phosphide (AlGaInP) red light-emitting diodes  (LEDs) [Applied  Physics Express, v16, p066503, 2023] The researchers report: “The devices with  sidewall treatments demonstrated a reduction in external quantum efficiency (EQE) of 20%,  corresponding to the lowest efficiency drop due to the size effect in AlGaInP μLEDs to date.”
        Micron-scale LEDs are being developed for  display applications. Although nitride-based InGaN LEDs are used to cover the  green and blue parts of the visible color range, InGaN red LEDs suffer from much reduced  efficiency and low light output  powers. Normal red LEDs use other material systems such as AlGaInP. Unfortunately for micron-scale applications  such as displays, the reduced-size AlGaInP LEDs suffer from more severe  efficiency degradation than nitride-based devices. This mainly arises from ‘sidewall damage’  from the mesa etching part of the LED fabrication process. This damage has a  larger impact on smaller devices due to the greater ratio of sidewall surface area to device volume — or,  alternatively but equivalently, sidewall perimeter to device area. Damaged sidewalls form sites where carriers  more easily dissipate their energy through Shockley–Read–Hall (SRH) recombination, rather than perform the desired LED  function of recombining electrons and holes into photons. AlGaInP devices  suffer from further factors of a longer minority carrier diffusion length, and faster surface recombination velocity,  compared with other LED materials systems, which means that the carriers can  more easily end up at the sidewalls, avoiding photo-production.  Figure 1: Schematics of AlGaInP devices  with no sidewall treatments (reference), with ALD sidewall passivation, and  with combination of chemical treatments and ALD sidewall passivation. The devices (Figure 1) were fabricated from one commercial 4-inch  AlGaInP wafer produced for LED production. The active light-emitting region of  the epitaxial material comprised 40 AlGaInP quantum wells in InGaP barrier layers.
      The material was diced into 1.5cmx1.5cm  squares for LED fabrication. A 110nm indium tin oxide  (ITO) transparent ohmic conductor was first applied to the p-GaP contact layer  by electron-beam evaporation. Various-sized square device mesas of sides  from 20μm to 100μm were etched using reactive  chlorine/nitrogen ions. A major problem with reactive-ion etching is that it  creates highly defective sidewalls. 