ROHM launches RGB chip LED for automotive interiors Japan’s ROHM Semiconductor has launched a new RGB chip LED (SMLVN6RGBFU)  suitable for automotive interiors, such as function/status indicators in  instrument clusters, CID (Center Information Displays), car audio/navigation,  heater control etc, as well as automotive ambient/accent lighting (footwells,  roof, handles, cup holders, etc). In recent years, more driver assistance functions (i.e.  automatic speed control, vehicle distance/white line detection) have  been introduced as vehicles become progressively electronic and sophisticated.  As such, the demand for RGB chip LEDs capable of expressing a range of  colors to indicate operational status in instrument panels and meter clusters  is rising. In addition, there is an increasing need to create a comfortable and  luxurious cabin space with decorative lighting using RGB chip LEDs. In response, ROHM has developed an RGB chip LED that further  minimizes color variation by precisely controlling the luminous characteristics  of the RGB elements and improving color mixing through in-house device  technology.  Generally, developing RGB chip LEDs that emit light at the  specified color requires precise control of the wavelength and brightness of  the mounted red, green and blue (RGB) elements individually and methods to  enhance color-mixing capability. ROHM says that it has minimized element color  variation over general products by utilizing a vertically integrated production  system from the element fabrication stage – claimed to be one of ROHM’s  strengths.  At the same time, original element color mixing control  technology reduces color variations caused by color mixing that tends to occur  in RGB chip LEDs, resulting in the accurate color expression required  in automotive interiors. ROHM also supports detailed color matching  tailored to user specifications with the chromaticity simulation system.  The SMLVN6RGBFU  sets adjustment coefficients for each chromaticity rank while providing  calibration support to bring the color closer to the desired target. The new  RGB chip LED and high-accuracy chromaticity simulation allows precise  color matching, says ROHM. 