QPT and GaN Systems sign MoU to develop technologies to extend EV driving range Power  electronics company Quantum Power Transformation  (QPT) of Cambridge, UK (which was founded  in 2020) announced in late May that it had created the drive, control  and sense technologies to maximize gallium nitride (GaN) transistor  performance and overcome design challenges in the 100kHz to 20MHz frequency  range for high-power and high-voltage applications that use hard switching.  This technology is now unleashing the power performance in GaN-based designs,  most dominantly in the automotive industry. QPT says that  its solution requires high-speed GaN transistors to deliver GaN’s promised  power efficiencies. The firm has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with GaN Systems Inc  of Ottawa, Ontario, Canada (a fabless developer of GaN-based power switching semiconductors for power conversion and  control applications) to investigate the possibilities of developing  these technologies, resulting in increased performance and further improvements  that can boost the driving range of electric vehicles (EVs). “GaN Systems  produces the highest performing 650V power GaN devices, and this allows us  to achieve the highest efficiency when combined with our technology,” says QPT’s  founder & CEO Rob Gwynne. “The better the efficiency of power usage, the  greater the range of the EV.” QPT has  “unlocked functional improvement in performance, resulting in a highly  optimized GaN solution for the EV market,” comments GaN Systems’ CEO Jim  Witham. “In partnership, GaN Systems’ transistors and QPT technology could  dramatically change the GaN market.” The most  significant boost to the EV range comes from QPT’s ability to drive GaN much  more efficiently. GaN transistors can operate at higher frequencies for  switching on and off. The higher the switching speed, the less time is spent in  transition, and the less energy is lost. GaN transistors can quickly transition  from on to off at 1–2ns instead of 20–50ns  for silicon and silicon carbide (SiC)  transistors. However, achieving maximum performance is challenging in some  high-voltage, high-power applications. QPT’s solution  enables the GaN transistors to be run at their full potential of up to 20MHz  with nanosecond switching to deliver better operational precision without RF  interference issues or overheating, it is claimed. The firm’s technology enables motors to be driven at  up to 99.7% efficiency at peak load with hardly any decrease in efficiency at  lower loads. This is currently a challenge for conventional designs, where the  efficiency can drop off rapidly at lower loads. An additional  boost comes from integrating and shrinking the variable-frequency drive (VFD)  that controls the motor speed. Existing VFDs are bulky, so they are invariably  located away from the motor itself and then connected by copper cables that are  big and heavy to cope with the hundreds of Amps going through them. QPT says  that its GaN technology shrinks the size of a VFD to about a 20th of the size,  reducing weight. More importantly, the size reduction means that it can be  co-located beside the motor. Picture: QPT's qGaN modules forming a VFD solution. This  integrated motor solution is said to eliminate the need for long, heavy copper  cables, which can amount to a significant weight and cost reduction of about  half a meter each. Additionally, the copper cables have resistance marking less  power loss and reducing the overall system efficiency. All these factors mean  that QPT’s solution without copper cables can increase the range of the car, it  is reckoned. “Our calculations  show that our VFD solution can reduce power usage by around 10% and even more  when the motor operates at low speeds,” says Gwynne. “Together with the  benefits of no long cables, that can significantly increase the range of an EV  or a smaller battery for the same range,” he adds. “Our technology is encapsulated  into modules to form a plug-and-play solution that can be dropped in to replace  an existing VFD with the rest of the existing system, such as the  microprocessor and software stack, staying the same.” 