SMART Photonics secures €100m in extra funding round Independent pure-play indium phosphide (InP) photonic integrated circuit  (PIC) foundry SMART Photonics of Eindhoven, The Netherlands, has  secured an additional round of funding of €100m from a group of strategic  industry and financial Dutch players. Among the group of new lenders are strategic players from the  semiconductor industry (ASML, NXP and VDL Groep) as well as financial  institutions (ING, BOP Impact Ventures  and Deep Tech Fund, which is part of  Invest-NL and partly funded by the ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate  Policy). Previous investors, including Innovation Industries, BOM, PhotonDelta  and KPN Ventures have joined in this  funding round again. The government of the Netherlands will provide €60m public funding as part of the approved National  Growth Fund project PhotonDelta as  previously announced. SMART Photonics will use the funds to extend its manufacturing  capabilities and accelerate the development of its photonic integrated chip  technology platforms and its process design kits (PDKs). “With this round of funding, we receive strong support from the  Dutch ecosystem including strategic lenders and financial institutions in our  ambition to become the globally leading foundry for photonic integrated chips,”  says CEO Johan Feenstra. “Financial support from the three fellow-Brainport region  companies gives SMART Photonics the best opportunity to take the essential next  steps to further mature the organization, strengthen technical capabilities and  extend their manufacturing base,” state ASML, NXP and VDL Groep jointly. “Our additional funding  will help strengthen the Brainport and wider Dutch and European Photonics  ecosystem. SMART Photonics becoming a strong and versatile foundry can greatly  benefit the growing number of fabless photonic chip  design companies in the Brainport region,” he adds. “We believe in the Netherlands as a leading international hub for  the development of the fast-growing integrated photonics industry,” says Micky  Adriaansens, Netherlands’ Minister of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.  “That’s why we invest both through the National Growth Fund project PhotonDelta  in the whole ecosystem and through our dedicated Deep Tech Fund with specific funding for start-ups and scale-ups  who focus on innovative complex technology such as SMART Photonics. For the  prosperity and economic growth of the future and to maintain our  competitiveness, it is necessary that we develop innovative key technologies  like integrated photonics within the European Union.” 