OIPT ships full suite of plasma processing solutions to Indian Institute of Science Oxford Instruments Plasma Technology (OIPT) of Yatton, near  Bristol, UK has announced a shipment of equipment to the GaN Ecosystem Enabling  Centre and Incubator (GEECI) located at the Centre for Nano Science and  Engineering, (CeNSE) Indian Institute of Science (IISc), in Bengaluru. To be installed in a pilot production line, the shipment  includes atomic layer etch (ALE) equipment, two variants of inductively coupled  plasma (ICP) etch modules, and plasma enhanced chemical vapour deposition  (PECVD) technology. The suite of gallium nitride (GaN) plasma processing  solutions will be used to develop next generation  GaN-on-Si and GaN-on-SiC high power and high frequency power electronics and RF  devices, says the firm. Located within India’s premier high technology hub, in the  city of Bengaluru, GEECI is an ideal environment for technology start-ups and  spin-offs. Professor Srinivasan Raghavan (Vasu), who is in charge of setting up  GEECI, said, “The equipment, ongoing process and service support, and technical  collaboration with Oxford Instruments Plasma Technology is crucial to our GaN  device development program. We are incredibly excited to partner with Oxford  Instruments to establish our new GaN pilot production line to support the next  generation of GaN startups and spin outs, which are critical to accelerate  India’s flourishing semiconductor ecosystem. Prof. Shankar Kumar Selvaraja the  Process expert added, “We look forward to developing new process recipes to  enable GaN power and RF electronics”. Ian Wright, OIPT’s VP of Sales and Business Development,  Asia, commented “We are delighted to be bringing our GaN technology to such a  prestigious institution as the IISc. We have recently experienced a surge in  interest for our solutions in India, which points toward a shift in the  technology landscape for that region with momentum generated through government  funding.” 