North American GaN device makers confirm continuity of gallium sourcing despite China’s export restrictions North America-based producer of gallium nitride  (GaN) power devices have responded to China’s imposition of export  restrictions on gallium and germanium with statements affirming their  continuity of supply. On 3 July, China’s  Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM) and General Administration of Customs (GAC)  announced that export control measures on gallium- and germanium-related  semiconductor raw materials would be  put in place from 1 August. GaN  wafer materials are listed as being affected by these regulations. Transphorm Inc of Goleta, near Santa Barbara,  CA, USA — which designs and makes GaN field-effect transistors (FETs) for  high-voltage power conversion — confirmed that its primary trimethylgallium (TMGa) suppliers are  not based in China and that they are well positioned to meet forecasted demand,  so it is securely positioned to continue manufacturing and supplying GaN  devices without interruption. The firm also notes that gallium is generally a byproduct  resulting from refinement processes used to produce common metals such as  aluminium from bauxite ore, and that aluminium is produced in numerous  countries including Australia, Brazil, India, Jamaica, and the USA. Transphorm says that it will continue to the monitor the situation  as necessary but sees no direct impact on its current operations. Nor does it  see long-term sourcing issues. Navitas Semiconductor of Torrance, CA, USA has confirmed continued supply of its GaN  power ICs. The firm notes that its  GaN-on-silicon wafer subcontract manufacturer has verified that their  production remains unaffected by the export restrictions, given the multiple  sources of gallium worldwide. It hence does not expect customer deliveries to  be impacted or its business to be adversely affected by the export  restrictions. Navitas notes that it not use germanium in any product. GaN Systems Inc of Ottawa, Ontario,  Canada (a fabless developer of GaN-based power switching semiconductors  for power conversion and control applications) has confirmed with its GaN-on-silicon wafer supplier that  the announced export restrictions on gallium and germanium raw materials will not directly impact wafer  production, given that there are multiple sources of gallium worldwide. The  firm hence does not see any major impact on material supplies that would  disrupt its ability to supply its GaN power  products to customers. 