Renesas and Wolfspeed sign 10-year silicon carbide wafer supply agreement Renesas Electronics Corp  of Tokyo, Japan has executed a wafer supply  agreement and $2bn deposit to secure a 10-year supply commitment of silicon carbide bare and epitaxial wafers from Wolfspeed Inc of Durham, NC, USA, which makes  silicon carbide materials as well as silicon carbide (SiC) and  gallium nitride (GaN) power-switching & RF semiconductor devices.  The supply deal will pave the way for Renesas to scale production of silicon carbide power semiconductors starting in 2025. The signing ceremony was  held at Renesas’ headquarters in Tokyo between Renesas’ president & CEO Hidetoshi  Shibata and Wolfspeed’s president & CEO Gregg Lowe.  Picture:   Renesas’ president & CEO Hidetoshi  Shibata and Wolfspeed’s president & CEO Gregg Lowe. The decade-long supply agreement calls for Wolfspeed to provide  Renesas with 150mm silicon carbide  bare and epitaxial wafers scaling in 2025, reinforcing the companies’ vision  for an industry-wide transition from silicon to silicon carbide power devices.  The agreement also anticipates supplying Renesas with 200mm silicon carbide bare and epitaxial wafers after  the recently announced John Palmour  Manufacturing Center for Silicon Carbide  (the JP) is fully operational. Renesas is moving quickly to address the growing demand for power semiconductors by expanding its in-house  manufacturing capacity. The firm recently announced the restart of its Kofu  Factory to produce silicon insulated-gate bipolar transistors (IGBTs), and the  establishment of a silicon carbide  production line at its Takasaki Factory. “The wafer supply agreement with Wolfspeed will provide Renesas  with a stable, long-term supply base  of high-quality silicon carbide  wafers. This empowers Renesas to scale our power semiconductor  offerings to better serve customers’ vast array of applications,” says Shibata.  “We are now poised to elevate ourselves as a key player in the accelerating  silicon carbide market,” he believes. “With the steepening demand for silicon carbide across the automotive, industrial and energy  sectors, it’s critically important we have best-in-class power semiconductor customers like Renesas to  help lead the global transition from silicon to silicon carbide,” comments Lowe. “For more than 35 years, Wolfspeed has focused on producing  silicon carbide wafers and  high-quality power devices, and this  relationship marks an important step in our mission to save the world energy.” Renesas’ $2bn deposit will help support Wolfspeed’s ongoing  capacity construction projects including the JP, the world’s largest silicon carbide materials factory in Chatham County, North Carolina. The multi-billion-dollar facility is targeted to  generate a more than 10-fold increase from Wolfspeed’s current silicon carbide production capacity on its Durham  campus. The facility will produce primarily 200mm silicon carbide wafers. 