Sivers Photonics receives $1m order from Ayar Labs IC and integrated module supplier Sivers  Semiconductors AB of Kista, Sweden says  that its subsidiary Sivers Photonics of Glasgow, Scotland, UK has received a  new order worth $1m (about SEK11m) from silicon photonics-based chip-to-chip optical connectivity firm Ayar Labs of Santa Clara, CA, USA for the development of laser arrays that support applications including  high-performance computing (HPC), artificial intelligence (AI),  machine learning (ML). The order deepens Sivers’ strategic collaboration  with Ayar Labs, which is working on scaling its in-package optical I/O solution  for volume production. With this order the companies enter the next phase of their  partnership with a focus on the continued development and commercialization of  Sivers’ distributed feedback (DFB) laser arrays supporting Ayar  Labs’ optical I/O  solution, which is currently enabling 4Tb/s bidirectional chip-to-chip optical  connectivity. The order will be delivered across 2023 and 2024 and includes  agreed commercial terms for volume pricing in anticipation of future  manufacturing by Sivers at larger volumes. Sivers Photonics says that its DFB laser arrays provide the  high-quality light source for Ayar Labs’ SuperNova remote  optical source  product as they scale to volume production  across a broad range of applications including AI/ML interconnects,  disaggregated data centers, 6G networks, and phased-array  sensor systems. In May, Ayar Labs closed a second round of Series C  funding, raising it to $155m. The additional C round was led by  Capital TEN  and included VentureTech Alliance and participation by previous investors  Boardman Bay  Capital Management,  IAG Capital Partners,  NVIDIA, and Tyche Partners. Other Series C existing strategic and  financial investors include Applied Ventures, GlobalFoundries,  Hewlett Packard  Pathfinder, Intel Capital and Lockheed Martin Ventures. “We are excited to continue our strong relationship with Ayar Labs  after our successful joint demos at both ECOC 2022 and OFC 2023,” says Sivers  Photonics’ interim managing director & chief technology officer Dr Andrew  McKee. “Utilizing our proven technology, Ayar Labs can confidently deliver to  their customers at scale, all whilst leveraging the continued growth of the  CW-WDM MSA ecosystem for high-bandwidth and channel-count laser solutions,” he  adds. “We  value Sivers as an essential part of our thriving ecosystem, as they have  consistently proven to be a responsive and reliable supplier in meeting our  SuperNova product commitments,” comments Ayar Labs’ CEO  Charlie Wuischpard. “The ability to deliver high-quality remote light sources at  volume and maintain an aggressive development roadmap are important to  commercializing our optical I/O solutions,” he adds. “Ayar Labs is revolutionizing the way CPUs and GPUs will  communicate within next-generation HPC and AI/ML architectures,” comments  Sivers Semiconductors’ group CEO Anders Storm. “By enabling the switch to  optical interconnect technology versus traditional electrical links, Ayar’s  solution, leveraging Sivers technology, will provide a dramatic step-change in  the required bandwidth, power and latency improvements necessary for these  complex systems to scale and meet the exploding demand for AI/ML clusters. With  the massive growth of generative AI, we believe this is just the beginning and  are excited to support our customers in enabling the AI revolution.” 