Celestial AI raises $100m in Series B funding Celestial AI of Santa Clara, CA, USA, creator of the Photonic Fabric, has raised $100m in Series B  funding led by IAG Capital Partners, Koch Disruptive Technologies (KDT)  and Temasek’s Xora Innovation fund. Other major investors in the round include  Samsung Catalyst, Smart Global Holdings (SGH), Porsche Automobil Holding SE,  The Engine Fund, imec.xpand, M Ventures and Tyche Partners. Celestial AI’s  Photonic Fabric technology platform delivers optical connectivity  performance levels that are claimed to be ten years more advanced than  existing technology offerings. The era of electrical connectivity limiting data transmission  is ending, as optical interconnectivity becomes the foundational building block  for accelerated computing, says Celestial AI. Today’s advanced artificial intelligence  (AI) models require exponentially increasing memory capacity and  bandwidth, as Large Language Models (LLM) including GPT-4 used for ChatGPT and  Recommendation Engines are memory bound rather than compute bound.  Cloud service providers (CSPs) and hyperscale data centers are unable  to decouple memory scaling from compute (often referred to as the  ‘memory-wall’ challenge). Low bandwidth, high latency and high-power  electrical interconnects are consequential barriers to growth of profitable AI  business models and advancements in AI. As a result, optical compute  interconnect (OCI) is said to be the only viable solution to enable  disaggregation of scalable data-center memory and accelerated computing.  Additionally, optically interconnected pooled memory systems address the  largest contributor to data-center economic inefficiency – stranded memory. After close collaboration with hyperscalers, AI compute and memory  providers, Celestial AI is introducing the Photonic Fabric, the  optical interconnect for disaggregated, exascale compute and memory clusters.  Photonic Fabric is said to be unconstrained by package beachfront  limitations and can deliver data to any location on the compute die, directly  to the point of consumption. The bandwidth delivered by the Photonic Fabric  is 25x greater and delivers more than 10x lower latency and power consumption  than any optical interconnect alternative, such as co-packaged optics (CPO). “Generative AI and Recommendation Engines, which today are  running on general purpose computing systems, have already begun to  measurably impact business processes, products and services,” notes Celestial AI’s  founder & CEO Dave Lazovsky. “A rapid transition will take place in the  coming years as global data-center infrastructure transitions from general purpose  to accelerated computing  systems. This next wave of data-center infrastructure is being architected to  deliver tremendous advancements in AI workload efficiencies, resulting from  disaggregation of memory and compute resources which is enabled by optical  interconnectivity.” Celestial AI is building a robust Photonic Fabric  ecosystem consisting of AI compute, memory suppliers, hyperscalers and  high-volume commercial supply chain partners. The technology is compatible  with existing industry standards including CXL, PCIe, UCIe, JEDEC HBM, and  proprietary electrical communication links. Celestial AI is offering its  Photonic Fabric optical interconnect technology and silicon-proven IP  through a technology licensing program. “Celestial AI has developed a transformational optical  connectivity capability that will deliver step-change advancements in both  performance and energy efficiency of high-performance computing, unlocking  the potential of generative AI and other complex workloads,” comments Koch  Disruptive Technologies’ founder & CEO Chase Koch. “This could be a truly  disruptive moment for advanced computing,” he believes. Celestial AI offers a suite of Photonic Fabric  technology solutions to provide independent scalability of compute and memory  resources. Customers can leverage the Photonic Fabric as an extension to  their existing compute platforms (GPUs, CPUs and accelerators) through  licensable IP or can harness the full end-to-end benefits of the Photonic Fabric  with Celestial AI’s Orion AI accelerator. The Photonic Fabric  also enables industry-first production deployments of optically interconnected  high-capacity, high-bandwidth composable memory systems. 