NUBURU’s latest private placement boosts June capital raise from about $8m to $9.2m NUBURU Inc of Centennial, CO, USA —  which conducts research, development, design and manufacturing of high-power,  high-brightness industrial blue lasers  — says that, subsequent to the purchase agreement announced on 12 June  that raised $7.925m, on 16 June, it entered into an additional note and  warrant purchase agreement with certain investors including existing  investors, for the sale of (i) convertible promissory notes worth a total of  $1.3m, and (ii) warrants to purchase up to 1,889,535 shares of common stock,  par value $0.0001 per share. The total amount of the cash infusion raised from these two  purchase agreements (prior to deducting transaction and issuance costs) is  about $9.2m. The shares underlying the convertible notes and the warrants  are subject to a one-year lock up and are expected to be registered for resale  on a registration statement on Form S-3 after 6 February 2024. “Our ability to attract both existing and new investors to  complete a second funding transaction this month provides further indication  that our next-generation technology and market opportunity are resonating with  the financial community,” believes CEO & co-founder Dr Mark Zediker. “This additional capital  will help us continue our commercialization and execute our product development  roadmap and deliver dramatically improved manufacturing capabilities to our  customers in our primary markets: welding, metal additive 3D printing  and consumer electronics.” The convertible notes are senior, unsecured obligations of the  company and bear interest at the rate of 7% per year and are payable on  the earlier of 23 June 2026, or the occurrence of an event of default, as  defined in the convertible notes. They may be converted at any time following  23 June 2023, prior to the payment in full of the principal amount of the  convertible notes at the investor’s option. In the event of the sale of the  company, the outstanding principal amount of each convertible note, plus all  accrued and unpaid interest not otherwise converted into equity securities  pursuant to the terms of the convertible notes, shall (i) if the investor so  elects, be converted into equity securities pursuant to the terms of the  convertible notes (the conversion shares) at a price equal to $0.688 (subject  to appropriate adjustment from time to time for any stock dividend, stock split,  combination of shares, reorganization, recapitalization, reclassification or  other similar event), or (ii) be due and payable immediately prior to the  closing of such sale of the company, together with a premium equal to 150% of  the principal amount to be prepaid. Subsequent to the effectiveness of a  registration statement registering the registrable securities, NUBURU may elect to pay interest in kind  through the issuance of shares of common stock at the conversion price, in lieu  of payments in cash (the interest shares). The warrants issued pursuant to the purchase agreement entitle the  relevant investor to purchase that number of fully paid and non-assessable  shares of common stock (the warrant shares) determined by dividing the  principal amount of each convertible note by the conversion price. The warrants  have an exercise price equal to $1.03, which represent a 50% premium over the  exercise price, and expire on 23 June 2028. 