Mojo Vision powers highest-density red micro-LED micro-display Mojo Vision Inc of Saratoga, CA, USA — which is developing and commercializing  micro-LED display technology for consumer, enterprise and government  applications — claims that it has made an important step in overcoming  challenges of delivering high-performance and reliable full-color micro-LED  displays by powering the world’s highest-density (14K ppi) red micro-LED  micro-display. Mojo Vision used its proprietary quantum dot (QD)  process to display visually vibrant red micro-LEDs measuring 1.37μm in diameter and set on a 1.87μm pitch. The visual quality and efficiency at  this size are critical in meeting the full-color requirements for  augmented reality (AR) and extended reality (XR) markets. A primary challenge with existing display technologies, such as  organic light-emitting diodes (OLED), in today’s AR/VR headsets is the ability  to deliver optimal brightness and contrast dynamically as environmental light  conditions change. When micro-LEDs are commercially available, the displays  will be able to provide rich device functionality in all ambient  conditions for AR and XR emerging products. Mojo Vision’s high-density red  micro-LED is claimed to be the industry’s first to overcome wavelength and  visual challenges with ultra-high pixel density, brightness, contrast,  color gamut and energy efficiency. “The ability to make very small red, green and blue micro-LEDs on  the same substrate is critical to achieving vibrant and effective full-color  micro-displays,” says CEO Dr Nikhil Balram. “Powering a true red display,  rather than leaning toward orange as others do, at this size and specification  puts us a big step closer to producing a micro-LED display that will meet or  exceed the current performance and form-factor requirements for AR and XR  products.” While it is typically easier to deliver high-quality micro-LEDs at  larger sizes (>5μm), the industry has  struggled with smaller micro-LEDs, particularly those using color conversion  materials. Mojo Vision claims that its latest development sets a new benchmark  for micro-LED manufacturers by achieving true red vibrancy at a record-small  pitch, exceeding past records for red wavelengths of 620nm or more that are  required by major color standards used in broadcast and consumer displays. “Addressing all three comfort pillars — wearable, visual and  social — in all-day-use smart glasses is critical for wide consumer adoption,”  says Dr Bernard Kress, president of the International Society for Optics  and Photonics (SPIE). “The display sub-system is at the core of this problem.  Emissive display panels are preferred to traditional liquid crystal on silicon  (LCOS) or digital light processing (DLP) panels that require larger  volumes and higher drive power. Although micro-OLED panels can be  effectively matched to bulky birdbath combiners, micro-LED panels are best  suited for thin waveguide combiners due to their higher brightness,” he  adds. “Monolithic RGB micro-LED panels have been the industry’s holy grail  for many years now but are still struggling to produce efficient pixels with  pitches below 4μm, with challenges  ranging from using InGaN instead of more mature AlInGaP, efficiency in red,  reliability and thermal issues, and lack of 300mm wafer-scale fab,” Kress  continues. “Mojo’s proprietary red and green QD conversion of mature blue GaN  micro-LED panel technology at pixel pitches below 2μm can be a great alternative and provide effective solutions for  today’s smart glasses.” Mojo Vision says that its new prototype will support a more  advanced display in lightweight glasses form factor. In May, the firm  announced a partnership with DigiLens to advance display capabilities in AR/XR  markets. The partnership closely followed Mojo Vision’s successful  light-up of the first-ever 300mm blue GaN-on-silicon micro-LED array wafer. “Full-color micro-LED micro-displays are going to start emerging  in the market in the coming years,” notes Dr Guillaume Chansin, director  of display research at Display Supply Chain Consultants (DSCC).  “Mojo Vision’s prototype stands out as a new milestone, by demonstrating  red color conversion with a sub-2μm  pixel pitch,” he comments. “This development is significant for the  micro-LED industry and shows the potential of Mojo Vision’s approach  towards full-color, high-resolution micro-displays.” 