Kulicke & Soffa launches high-power-interconnect capabilities for power devices Singapore-based Kulicke & Soffa Industries Inc  (K&S) — which designs and manufactures semiconductor, LED and  electronic assembly equipment — has  launched several new systems and capabilities serving high-volume semiconductor  and fast-growing power-semiconductor applications. POWERCOMM and POWERNEXX  are said to represent the next evolution in wire bonding  systems and are designed with a new generation of intuitive advanced process capabilities that deliver maximum levels  of performance, efficiency and productivity. Additionally, both systems deliver  enhanced mean-time-between-assists (MTBA), with automated recovery features  that improve the machine-to-operator ratio and better support localization of  semiconductor assembly. The POWERCOMM wire bonding  solution is designed to support high-volume discrete and low-pin-count devices  commonly used in applications such as data centers,  automotive, industrial automation, smartphones, wearables and connected  devices. The POWERNEXX wire bonding  solution is optimized for higher-density QFN packages with widths of up to  100mm. The improved illumination design on POWERNEXX allows faster alignment  time through its Pattern Recognition System (PRS). Faster alignment and  advanced process capabilities deliver what is claimed to be industry-leading  UPH (units per hour) and the  lowest cost-of-ownership. In addition to the new POWERCOMM and POWERNEXX systems, for wedge bond applications K&S has introduced new  high-power-interconnect (HPI)  capabilities addressing the emerging needs of power devices. HPI capabilities  are becoming increasingly necessary to assemble applications such as inverters,  battery assembly, and charging infrastructure that supports the growth and  increasing efficiency requirements of sustainable energy  and electric vehicle (EV) applications.  The need for more efficient and higher-current applications is driving rapid  changes to the power semiconductor  market by increasing demand in emerging compound semiconductors,  such as silicon carbide (SiC) and  gallium nitride (GaN), but are also  demanding new capabilities to support next-generation battery assembly and are  accelerating the transition from aluminium wire and ribbon to copper wire and  ribbon. Next-generation HPI capabilities are now being introduced across  Kulicke & Soffa’s wedge bonder  portfolio. “Our rich history of innovation and ongoing development priorities  are enabling us to provide additional value to the increasingly critical  assembly process,” says Shawn Sarbacker, VP of the  Ball Bonder business unit. “This  recent set of new wire bonding  systems and capabilities will better enable customers to optimize productivity,  improve material handling  capabilities and significantly lower cost-of-ownership.” Both the POWERCOMM and POWERNEXX solutions, along with K&S’s  full suite of solutions, are being debuted in booth #E3331 (Hall E3)  at the SEMICON China 2023 trade show in Shanghai  (29 June–1 July). 