Quantum Foundry Copenhagen orders Veeco GEN20-Q MBE systems Epitaxial deposition and process  equipment maker Veeco Instruments Inc of Plainview, NY, USA has received an order from Denmark-based Quantum Foundry Copenhagen P/S for multiple GEN20 molecular beam epitaxy (MBE) systems. The  multi-process module system is scheduled for delivery in 2024. The GEN20-Q MBE  system, a purpose-built GEN20 MBE reactor designed for the growth of quantum  technologies, was selected to enable the development of fault-tolerant quantum computing hardware to support  life-science and biological applications. “We are excited to start a fruitful and long-term engagement with  Veeco on the development of fabrication systems for ultra-pure quantum processor materials,” says professor  Peter Krogstrup, executive director  of the Quantum Foundry Copenhagen.  “Veeco has over many years delivered high-quality and reliable products and  they have a deep understanding of the importance of solutions for enabling  ultra-high purity. This, and the  ability to scale production, has been the main reason for Quantum Foundry Copenhagen to partner with Veeco  on central aspects of our cutting-edge epitaxy technology.” Based on the production-proven GEN20 platform, the GEN20-Q MBE  system utilizes a tailored design to support research and production of  multiple quantum computing  techniques including superconductive materials, spintronics, high-speed optical  modulation, and trapped-ion. The system incorporates production design  technology allowing direct scalability to Veeco’s multi-wafer high-volume  manufacturing MBE systems. With multiple GEN20-Q systems sold, Veeco says that  it is establishing a network of partners aimed to revolutionize quantum computing technologies. “Proven and reliable MBE is increasingly important for the  development of quantum technologies,” notes Matthew Marek, senior director of  marketing for Veeco’s MBE Group. “Quantum Foundry’s selection of the GEN20-Q  system exemplifies Veeco’s ability to create solutions that enable our  customers to achieve their research and production goals,” he adds. “We look  forward to partnering with Quantum Foundry.” 