EVG earns 11th consecutive triple win in TechInsights’ 2023 Customer Satisfaction Survey EV Group of St Florian,  Austria – a supplier of wafer bonding and lithography equipment for  semiconductor, micro-electro-mechanical systems (MEMS) and nanotechnology  applications – has again been voted by customers as one of the ‘10 BEST  Focused Suppliers of Chip Making Equipment’ and one of ‘THE BEST  Suppliers of Fab Equipment’ in the 2023 TechInsights Customer Satisfaction  Survey, increasing its score in both award segments compared with last year’s  listings as well as earning a 5 Star rating in both segments for the  second time in a row. EVG also received a ‘RANKED 1st in Specialty Fab  Equipment’ award again, marking the 11th consecutive year that it has received  all three customer satisfaction awards. Across the  survey, EVG achieved its highest rankings ever, moving up to second place and  receiving 5 Star ratings across all applicable award categories besides  the ‘RANKED 1st in Specialty Fab Equipment’ category. Among these, EVG was  once again recognized as one of ‘THE BEST Suppliers of Fab Equipment  to Foundation Chip Makers’ — a category defined as those companies whose  spending provides the foundation of wafer fab equipment development and  infrastructure in the global semiconductor industry, and which include several  of the top semiconductor sales leaders including foundries. In addition, for  the seventh year in a row, EVG was recognized as one of ‘THE BEST  Suppliers of Fab Equipment to Specialty Chip Makers’, achieving a 5 Star  rating in this category for the third time in a row. TechInsights  notes that EVG earned its highest ‘10 BEST’ rating ever this year, with  customers rating the company best at partnering, trust in supplier, recommended supplier  and technical leadership. 2023 marks the 21st consecutive year that EVG has  been listed among ‘THE BEST Suppliers of Fab Equipment’, as well as the  11th consecutive year that EVG has achieved the number-one spot as the  highest-ranked wafer bonder supplier. “EV Group  is known for delivering superior process expertise to its global customer and  partner base,” says TechInsights’ vice chair G. Dan Hutcheson. “Its decades  of experience and a willingness to invest in unique innovations have earned  customers’ trust in EVG’s ability to meet their needs. Demonstrating this,  customers awarded EVG higher ratings for the sixth consecutive year in  TechInsights’ Customer Satisfaction Survey. This year, they gave EVG high  marks across the board, with outstanding results for partnering, trust,  technical leadership, and product performance. Customers noted EVG’s strong  professional support during setup, as well as for excellent quality of  engineering service,” he adds. “Our Triple-i  philosophy of invent-innovate-implement is at the core of what we do for our  customers, which is being the first in exploring new techniques and serving  next-generation applications of micro- and nanofabrication technologies that  enable our customers to successfully commercialize their new product ideas,”  says Hermann Waltl, executive sales and customer support director at EVG. 