Coherent and TriEye demo laser-illuminated SWIR imaging system for automotive and robotic applications Materials, networking and laser technology firm Coherent Corp of  Saxonburg, PA, USA (formerly II-VI Inc before it acquired Coherent in July  2022) and TriEye Ltd of Tel Aviv, Israel — which claims  to have pioneered the first CMOS-based shortwave infrared (SWIR) image-sensing  solutions — have  jointly demonstrated a laser-illuminated SWIR imaging system for automotive and  robotic applications. The growing number of use cases for SWIR imaging, which  expands vision in automotive and robotics beyond the visible spectrum, is  driving demand for low-cost mass-market SWIR cameras. The companies leveraged  TriEye’s spectrum enhanced detection and ranging (SEDAR) product platform and  Coherent’s SWIR semiconductor laser to jointly design a laser-illuminated SWIR  imaging system that is claimed to be the first of its kind to reach lower cost points while  achieving very high performance over a wide range of environmental conditions.  The combination of these attributes is expected to enable wide deployment in  applications such as front and rear cameras in cars as well as vision systems  in industrial and autonomous robots. “This new solution combines best-in-class SWIR imaging and  laser illumination technologies that will enable next-generation cameras to  provide images through rain or fog, and in any lighting condition, from broad  daylight to total darkness at night,” says Coherent’s chief marketing officer Dr Sanjai  Parthasarathi. “Both technologies are produced leveraging high-volume  manufacturing platforms that will enable them to achieve the economies of scale  required to penetrate markets in automotive and robotics,” he adds. “We are happy to collaborate with a global leader in  semiconductor lasers and to establish an ecosystem that the automotive and  industrial robotics industries can rely on to build next-generation solutions,”  says TriEye’s CEO & co-founder Avi Bakal. “This is the next step in the  evolution of our technology innovation, which will enable mass-market  applications. Our collaboration will allow us to continue revolutionizing  sensing capabilities and machine vision by allowing the incorporation of SWIR  technology into a greater number of emerging applications.” The SEDAR product platform integrates TriEye’s CMOS-based  SWIR sensor and illumination source with Coherent’s 1375nm edge-emitting laser on  surface-mount technology (SMT). The laser-illuminated imaging systems is said  to enable the next generation of automotive cameras that can provide HD SWIR imaging  and accurate deterministic 3D sensing through any inclement weather. They can also enable  autonomous robots to operate around the clock in any ambient lighting  conditions and move seamlessly between indoor and outdoor environments. The imaging system are being exhibited in Coherent’s stand (B3.321) at  Laser World of Photonics  2023 in Munich, Germany (27–30 June). 