Wolfspeed raises $1.25bn via Apollo Credit, plus $750m accordion feature Wolfspeed Inc of Durham, NC, USA – which makes silicon carbide  materials as well as silicon carbide (SiC) and gallium nitride (GaN)  power-switching & RF semiconductor devices – has announced a $1.25bn secured note financing from an  investment group led by Apollo, with an accordion feature for up to an  additional $750m. The financing  supports the firm’s US expansion efforts (announced in September 2022) and is a  significant step toward achieving its $6.5bn global capacity expansion plan. Execution of Wolfspeed’s  US growth plan will accelerate  adoption of silicon carbide across a  wide array of end markets and  support job creation in US semiconductor manufacturing, says the firm. The 9.875%  notes will mature in 2030 and are optionally prepayable by the company based on  the terms of the indenture governing the notes. The investment was led by funds  managed by Apollo’s ~$450bn Credit business. “The group’s  commitment to Wolfspeed further validates the importance of silicon carbide to the global energy transition,”  says Wolfspeed’s president & CEO Gregg Lowe. “This important step in our  financing provides significant capital to scale up near-term operations at our  Mohawk Valley Fab and construction  of our Siler City materials facility  to help us capture the growing silicon carbide  market opportunity. The financing positions Wolfspeed to continue to lead the  growth of the industry and focus on the execution of our vertically integrated  strategy to meet growing demand,” he adds. “Our agreement  with Apollo and its capital partners achieves our near-term funding targets  while prioritizing our shareholders with a new, non-dilutive source of  financing,” notes chief financial officer  Neill Reynolds. “Apollo and its capital partners’ investment follows an  extensive review of our business and demonstrates their conviction in our team,  operating plan and trajectory,” he adds. “Apollo is  pleased to provide a dynamic and flexible credit solution to Wolfspeed as it  significantly expands its silicon carbide  manufacturing capacity,” says Apollo Credit  partner Joseph Jackson. “The company’s growth plan is designed to deliver  critical silicon carbide products  for a range of automotive and industrial uses, and support sustainability goals  with market-leading technology,” he comments. “With the help of our capital  partners, we have crafted a facility that can provide up to $2bn to ramp the  company’s expansion plans.” 