BluGlass showcasing enhanced GaN laser products at Laser World of Photonics In booth 539 (Hall B2) at the  Laser World of Photonics 2023 event in Munich, Germany (27–30 June), BluGlass Ltd  of Silverwater, Australia — which manufactures gallium nitride  (GaN) blue laser diodes based on its proprietary low-temperature,  low-hydrogen remote-plasma chemical vapor deposition (RPCVD) technology — is  showcasing enhanced GaN laser products  featuring significant performance improvements in light emission, power conversion efficiencies, and voltage.  Specifically, the firm’s blue 450nm single-mode and multi-mode devices feature  increases in power conversion  efficiency of more than 55% and 42%, respectively, from those launched at  Photonics West 2023 in San Francisco  at the end of January, enabling their use in more demanding customer  applications such as quantum computing,  robotics and biotechnology. Customers can  inspect BluGlass’ enhanced performance data at Laser World across the 405nm, 420nm and 450nm wavelengths in  single-mode and multi-mode devices. The firm is also using the conference to  launch a new 397nm ultraviolet single-mode alpha product  on the market. UV lasers are increasingly being sought after for quantum sensing applications, advanced  disinfection technologies, water and surface purification applications, and  medical devices. BluGlass’ product  suite now includes six commercial and three prototype products, available in a  range of form factors including TO cans of various sizes, and  chip-on-submounts. Together with its  collaboration partner University of California Santa Barbara (UCSB), BluGlass has made significant improvements  to its GaN distributed feedback  laser (DFB) demonstrations using its proprietary RPCVD technology for  longer-wavelength devices. The firm has improved DFB side-mode suppression ratio by more than 50% since  Photonics West, delivering advanced  single-frequency performance at 450nm and demonstrating longer-wavelength DFB  lasers up to 478nm. DFB  single-frequency lasers are commonly utilized in non-visible wavelengths to  enable devices that require narrow spectral width  and high spectral purity, such as  quantum applications. GaN-based DFB lasers  are currently not commercially available in visible wavelengths. BluGlass is  releasing an updated GaN DFB white paper at Laser World. BluGlass is  nearing the completion of vertical integration, with production moved from four  out of five contract manufacturers  (CMs) into its Silicon Valley fab.  The firm is now in advanced stages of completing the integration of the final  back-side contract manufacturer. Since acquiring  its laser diode fabrication facility  in Silicon Valley and commencing  operations in July 2022, BluGlass has accelerated development and production,  mitigated reliability challenges to launch a suite of GaN lasers, advanced long-term roadmaps, and  begun shipping products to customers. “Our enhanced GaN  laser products are shifting our market position from an emerging alternative  supplier to an agile player that is focused on providing high-quality and  competitive GaN lasers,” says CEO Jim Haden. “As a dedicated GaN laser supplier, we are focused on launching  innovative products that address gaps in the market whilst also improving the  baseline performance of our existing lasers… This strategy broadens our target  customer base,” he adds.  “Performance improvements are a direct result of greater operational control,  and we are nearing completion of vertical integration of our front-end contract  manufacturers. Given our aggressive improvement curve, we remain confident in  our ability to gain market share in  a rapidly growing category with very few players and high barriers to entry.” 