Mitsubishi Electric to ship samples of NX-type full-SiC power semiconductor modules for industrial equipment Tokyo-based Mitsubishi Electric Corp has begun shipping  samples of its new NX-type full-SiC (silicon carbide) power semiconductor  module for industrial equipment. Mitsubishi Electric began releasing power semiconductor  modules incorporating SiC chips in 2010. The new module features a low-loss  second-generation SiC chip and an electrode structure optimized with laminated  electrodes to achieve reduced internal inductance of 9nH, 47% lower than that  of the existing module. Reduced internal inductance suppresses voltage surges in order to  protect equipment, allowing fast switching while also lowering switching loss and  power loss. The low-loss second-generation SiC chip incorporates junction  field-effect transistor (JFET) doping technology (which increases device  density by increasing impurity density in the JFET area). Compared with the  existing module (the CM600DX-34T of the 1700V/600A NX-type silicon IGBT module  T-series), this reduces power loss by about 72%, contributing to more  efficient equipment. Reduced power loss helps to reduce heat generation,  allowing the use of smaller and lighter-weight coolers. With a voltage rating of 1700V and current rating of 600A (and dimensions  of 62mm x 152mm x 17mm), the new FMF600DXE-34BN module is expected to  contribute to the realization of more efficient, smaller and lighter-weight  industrial equipment.  Picture:    Mitsubishi  Electric’s NX-type full-SiC power semiconductor module  for industrial equipment. Also, the NX-type package compatibility allows the new module to  easily replace the current version. Despite inclusion of the SiC chip, the external  dimensions and pin configurations are compatible with the NX-type module,  facilitating easy replacements that can help to speed up the design of new  equipment. Development of the new SiC module was partially supported by  Japan’s New Energy and Industrial Technology Development Organization  (NEDO). Mitsubishi Electric says that it will continue to expand its  lineup of power semiconductor modules to further contribute to more  efficient, smaller and lighter industrial equipment. 