Coherent launches record 65W pump laser diode Materials,  networking and laser technology firm Coherent Corp of Saxonburg, PA,  USA (formerly II-VI Inc before it acquired  Coherent in July 2022) has  introduced its next-generation pump laser diode, with 65W output power  for fiber lasers in industrial and consumer applications. Handheld fiber laser  welding is increasingly replacing arc welding as the technology of choice,  driving strong demand for components that enable cost-efficient designs. The  new laser diode reliably achieves a record 65W output power, 30% more than  that of the existing products, yet with lower operating current. These  unique features, combined with the diode’s compatibility with existing  submounts, enable a wide range of extremely low-cost fiber laser design  architectures. “This is the  first commercially available pump laser diode in the industry to achieve  65W of output power, surpassing our previous-record 50W diode that we  introduced at Photonics West in January,” believes Dr Karlheinz  Gulden, senior VP, Laser Components and Subsystems business unit.  “While the conventional wisdom is that, at these power levels, more expensive  ceramic submounts are required, this is not the case with our laser design  because we were able to lower the operating current even as we increased the  output power,” he adds. “This, in addition to the record-breaking output power,  is what makes it such a unique and compelling product.”  The 65W laser  diodes are based on a vertically integrated 6-inch gallium arsenide (GaAs) technology platform with decades of  field-proven reliability. They are available at 915nm and 975nm wavelengths as bare dies  or chips on ceramic submounts to meet customer requirements. The chips include  Coherent’s proprietary E2 front-mirror passivation that prevents catastrophic  damage to the laser, even at extremely high output powers. The 65W laser diodes  will be available in fall 2023. Coherent is  exhibiting in stand B3.321 at Laser World of Photonics 2023  in Munich, Germany (27-30 June); in stand 4101  at Laser Korea 2023 in Seoul (5-7 July);  and in stand 8.1D240 at Laser World of Photonics China in  Shanghai (11-13 July), where it is  showcasing the most recent additions to its portfolio of differentiated  solutions for materials processing. 