Finwave appoints Pierre-Yves Lesaicherre as CEO Finwave Semiconductor Inc of Waltham, MA,  USA says that Dr Pierre-Yves Lesaicherre has joined it as  CEO. Described as a semiconductor industry veteran with decades of experience  leading technology companies into accelerated growth and increased  profitability, Lesaicherre will be instrumental in driving the adoption of  Finwave’s technology and bringing it to the broader market. Picture:   Finwave Semiconductor’s new CEO Dr Pierre-Yves  Lesaicherre. Co-founder & former CEO Dr Bin Lu is now taking on the role of chief  technology officer, maintaining his  commitment to driving technology development and innovation within the company. Founded in 2012  by researchers at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) as Cambridge  Electronics before being rebranded in June 2022 as Finwave Semiconductor (with  offices in San Diego, CA and the Bay Area), the early-stage technology company  targets 5G communications with its 3DGaN technology, which features a 3D fin  gallium nitride transistor (GaN FinFET) structure. “With his extensive leadership experience in the semiconductor  industry, profound expertise in technology, science and global business, and a  remarkable track record of transforming businesses into resounding successes,  Pierre-Yves is ideally positioned to guide the company forward as we continue  to push the boundaries of GaN semiconductor technology,” believes Lu. “I  eagerly anticipate the positive impact he will undoubtedly make, as we strive  to revolutionize energy-efficient 5G/6G communications, data centers, automotive power, the IoT and more.” Finwave says that its 3DGaN FinFET technology delivers advancements  in linearity and power efficiency for 5G communications. Moreover, it claims  that its pioneering enhancement-mode (E-mode) RF technology opens up  possibilities for high-performance power amplifiers  in mobile handsets. By capitalizing on high-volume 8” silicon CMOS manufacturing, Finwave says that its GaN-on-Si  platform enables substantial cost reductions compared with traditional 6”  GaN-on-SiC and GaAs technologies, while embracing the scalability principles  akin to ‘Moore’s Law’ for GaN. “Finwave has introduced a new era of innovation and progress and  is on the cusp of bringing the true potential of GaN to some of today’s most  important enabling markets – including 5G, AI and the IoT,” says Lesaicherre.  “The company’s technology has already demonstrated its ability to deliver  extremely high performance in higher-frequency applications.” Before joining Finwave, Lesaicherre was president, CEO and a  director of Nanometrics Inc, a  provider of advanced process control  metrology and software analytics. He was also CEO of Lumileds, an integrated  manufacturer of LED components and  automotive lighting lamps, from 2012  to 2017. Lesaicherre previously held senior executive positions at NXP and  Philips Semiconductors, and served as chairman of the board of Silvaco Group Inc,  a supplier of TCAD, EDA software and  design IP. Lesaicherre currently  serves on the board of InterDigital, a technology company that develops and  licenses mobile and video technologies that are at the core of devices,  networks and services worldwide. Lesaicherre holds an MBA with a focus on International Business  and Strategy from INSEAD, and has an M.S. degree and a Ph.D. degree in Material Science from the Grenoble Institute of  Technology (Grenoble INP). He is a  board leadership fellow, governance fellow and director certified for NACD  (National Association of Corporate Directors) and an active member of NACD and  SVDX (Silicon Valley Director’s  Exchange). 