Aixtron honored with two German investor relations awards Deposition equipment  maker Aixtron SE of Herzogenrath, near Aachen, Germany has won the  German Investor Relations Award in two categories. The firm secured the top  ranking in the category ‘Best IR Work of an MDAX  Company’. Vice president IR  Guido Pickert achieved first place for ‘Best IR Work by an MDAX IR Professional’.  With host of the evening Andreas Scholz  (left) and DIRK managing director Kay Bommer (right), Aixtron’s CFO Dr Christian  Danninger accepted the award in the category ‘Best IR Work  of an MDAX Company’ (left image) and VP IR Guido Pickert won the category ‘Best IR Work  by an MDAX IR Professional’ (right image). Copyright:  Bellavista Film,  Claudio Malasomma. Organized by Institutional Investor,  WirtschaftsWoche and the German Investor Relations Association (DIRK), the  ceremony for the award took place at an evening event in Frankfurt am Main  as part of the DIRK annual conference. Companies are awarded annually in the  categories DAX, MDAX and SDAX, as well as the best IR professionals in the respective indices. The winners are determined following the  results of Institutional Investor’s Developed Europe  Executive Team Survey. Each year,  the survey collects independent feedback on the IR work of listed companies  worldwide, surveying thousands of buy- and sell-side professionals. “The constant exchange with our  shareholders is of major importance for us as well as a comprehensive and  transparent communication towards the capital market,” says chief financial officer Dr Christian  Danninger, who received the awards at the event together with Guido Pickert.  “The German IR Award, both in the corporate category and for the outstanding  performance of our VP IR Guido  Pickert, is proof that our efforts here are not only noticed but also highly  appreciated,” he adds. “In a time of comprehensive change,  investor relations plays a crucial role in shaping and communicating change.  Whether it’s sustainability, digitalization or the current inflationary  dynamics, outstanding IR professionals are significantly shaping these  developments,” says managing director  Kay Bommer. “Despite the challenging conditions, this year’s German IR Award winners have done excellent work.  They are symbolic of all those IR professionals  who drive the industry forward and serve as role models.” 