Mitsubishi Electric demos light source module for high-capacity optical communication in space Tokyo-based Mitsubishi Electric Corp has demonstrated laser  optical frequency control using a new light source module, a key  component of a projected high-capacity laser optical communication network  to be deployed in outer space. The module, which  produces a 1.5µm-wavelength signal, was installed in the OPTIMAL-1 nanosatellite  (measuring 10cm x 10cm x 34cm) developed through an  industry–academia collaboration led by ArkEdge Space Inc  and joined by Pale Blue Inc, SEIREN Co Ltd, the University  of Fukui, the School of Engineering at The University of Tokyo, and Mitsubishi Electric.  OPTIMAL-1 was released from the Japanese Experiment Module ‘Kibo’ aboard the  International Space Station (ISS) on 6 January. The use of a  nanosatellite enabled the demonstration to be carried out faster and at lower  cost than using a conventional large satellite. Mitsubishi Electric has been developing  space-based optical technologies that are expected to increase data capacity  (by ten times or more) as well as communication speeds and distances compared with  systems that use radio waves. Satellite images are increasingly being used for purposes such as  assessing conditions in post-disaster areas and the state of remote forestry  resources. Existing radio-wave satellite communication systems are limited  in terms of capacity, speed and distance, so new optical systems offering  improved communications capabilities are required for faster and  higher-resolution assessments from space. Advanced systems that use laser  signals are expected to be increasingly adopted not only for their superior  communications capabilities but also for using wavelengths shorter than radio  waves, which allows the use of relatively small and easily installed  terrestrial antennas. Features include: “The development of nanosatellites has  been gaining momentum in recent years,” notes ArkEdge Space Inc’s CEO  Takayoshi Fukuyo. “Nanosatellites weighing just a few kilograms can be  developed and launched for low cost, so they are expected to be used in new  applications, such as widespread observations of Earth using numerous  satellites. The successful demonstration of the light source module aboard  the OPTIMAL-1 is expected to advance the deployment of nanosatellites.” “Conditions in outer space, including  radiation, vacuum and temperatures, create harsh environments for equipment, so  demonstrating the capability to operate in space is crucial for the development  of satellites,” says University of Fukui associate professor Yoshihide  Aoyanagi. “I hope the successful demonstration of the OPTIMAL-1 will lead to  further progress in industry’s use of nanosatellites.” Mitsubishi Electric will propose the  demonstrated technology for use in large-scale space development projects. The firm  also intends to promote nanosatellites as an important demonstration platform  for space-related R&D conducted through industry–academia collaborations. Mitsubishi Electric  says that it will continue to pursue technological development aimed at the  early realization of space-based laser optical communications. 