Airbus and ST collaborate on SiC and GaN power electronics for aircraft electrification Aerospace & defence firm Airbus of Toulouse, France and  integrated device manufacturer STMicroelectronics  of Geneva, Switzerland have signed an agreement to cooperate on power electronics  R&D to support more efficient and lighter power electronics,  essential for future hybrid-powered aircraft and full-electric urban air vehicles. The collaboration builds on evaluations already conducted by both  companies to explore the benefits of wide-bandgap semiconductor materials for  aircraft electrification. Due to their superior electrical properties compared  with silicon, silicon carbide (SiC) and gallium nitride  (GaN) enable the development of smaller, lighter and more efficient  high-performance electronic devices and systems, particularly in applications  requiring high-power, high-frequency or high-temperature operation. The cooperation will focus on developing SiC and GaN devices,  packages and modules adapted for Airbus’ aerospace applications. The firms will  assess these components by conducting research and tests on demonstrators, such  as e-motor control units, high- and low-voltage power converters,  and wireless power transfer systems. The collaboration  with ST will be key to support Airbus’ electrification roadmap, says Airbus’ chief technical officer  Sabine Klauke. “Leveraging  their expertise and experience in power electronics for automotive  and industrial applications with our own record in aircraft and VTOL [vertical  take-off and landing] electrification will help us accelerate the development  of the disruptive technologies required for the ZEROe  roadmap and CityAirbus NextGen,” she adds. “We already have a  strong, transformational presence in mobility and industrial applications,  reinforced by a vertically integrated global SiC supply chain, to support  our customers globally with electrification and decarbonization,” says Jerome Roux, president, sales  & marketing, STMicroelectronics. “Aerospace is a highly demanding market with  specific requirements. Cooperating with Airbus, a global leader in this  industry, gives us the opportunity to define together new power technologies  the industry needs to realise its decarbonisation goals.” 