CGD’s CTO Florin Udrea inducted into IEEE ISPSD Hall of Fame Cambridge GaN Devices Ltd (CGD) — which was  spun out of the University of Cambridge Department of Engineering’s Electrical  Power and Energy Conversion group in 2016 and designs, develops and  commercializes power transistors and ICs that use GaN-on-silicon substrates —  says  that its co-founder & chief technology officer  professor Florin Udrea was recently inducted into the IEEE ISPSD (35th International  Symposium on Power Semiconductor  Devices and ICs) Hall of Fame, which honours individuals who have  made high-impact contributions in advancing power semiconductor  technology and/or sustaining the success of ISPSD. His citation reads: “For  inspiring a generation of engineers to excel in power semiconductors and his numerous contributions to the field  and to ISPSD”. Besides the Hall of Fame induction at the  ISPSD 2023 in Hong Kong (28 May–1 June),  Udrea was also given the awards for ‘Best Paper’  and ‘Best Poster’ for his  contributions at ISPSD 2022 in  Canada – the first time in the 35-year history of ISPSD when these two awards  have been given to the same person. “I am proud to join such an august and  select group of illustrious and pioneering colleagues,” comments Udrea. “It is  my privilege and also good fortune to be active at a time when the subject of  ‘power’ has never been more relevant. By working with new WBG materials such as  GaN, we can all improve efficiency and reduce our carbon footprint,” he adds. “CGD is fortunate to have someone of his  experience with power materials of many different types - silicon, silicon carbide, diamond as well as gallium nitride – as CTO, and we still benefit  from the research that results from the efforts made by HVMS, the High Voltage Microelectronics and Sensors  group at Cambridge University, which Florin still leads,” comments co-founder  & CEO Giorgia Longobardi. Udrea has published over 600  papers in journals and international conferences and is an inventor of 200  patents in power semiconductor  devices and sensors. In 2015 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Academy of  Engineering. His Best Poster  award at the ISPSD 2023  conference was given for the presentation ‘The Smart ICeGaN Platform with Sensing and  Protection Functions for Both Enhanced Ease of Use  and Gate Reliability.’ CGD’s 650V ICeGaN GaN HEMT family is claimed to deliver  industry-leading robustness, ease-of-use and maximized efficiency. ICeGaN can  be used as platform technology for a wide spectrum of application ranging from  power supplies in the consumer  sector to converters and inverters in the industrial sector. Udrea’s Best Paper award was given for  work on vertical silicon carbide  (SiC) FinFET devices undertaken at the University of Cambridge, in collaboration  with Japan-based Misrise Technologies and University of Kyoto. 