ITRI to strengthen Taiwan–UK collaboration During an initial exchange with the UK’s newly established  Department for Science, Innovation and Technology (DSIT), Dr Shih-Chieh Chang, general director of Electronic  and Optoelectronic System Research Laboratories at Taiwan’s  Industrial Technology Research Institute (ITRI), suggested that Taiwan can become a trustable partner for the UK and  that the partnership can leverage collective strengths to create mutually  beneficial developments. In mid-May, the DSIT released the UK’s National Semiconductor  Strategy, according to which the UK government plans to invest £1bn over the  next decade to support the semiconductor industry. This funding aims to improve  access to infrastructure, power more R&D and facilitate greater  international cooperation. Chang says that ITRI looks forward to more collaboration with the  UK on semiconductors to enhance the resilience of the supply chain. While  the UK possesses capabilities in semiconductor IP design and compound semiconductor  technology, ITRI has extensive expertise in semiconductor technology R&D  and trial production. As a result, ITRI is well positioned to offer  consultation services for advanced packaging pilot lines, facilitate  pre-production evaluation, and link UK semiconductor IP design companies with Taiwan’s semiconductor industry chain. “The expansion  of British manufacturers’ service capacity in Taiwan  would create a mutually beneficial outcome for both Taiwan  and the UK,” says Chang. The British Office Taipei stated that, over the last few years,  the UK has been increasing collaboration with Taiwan  on semiconductors. In 2020, the Compound Semiconductor Applications  Catapult (CSA Catapult) signed a memorandum of understanding with ITRI,  paving the way for a long-lasting collaborative partnership. The Department for  Business and Trade (DBT) is also focusing the Digital Trade Network in Taiwan to increase the UK’s capability to support  semiconductor trade and investment. Recognizing ITRI as a crucial driving force  for Taiwan’s semiconductor industry development,  the British Office Taipei looks forward to more cooperation with ITRI for  technological innovation, supply chain collaboration and stronger  partnership. Chang indicated possible collaboration that can be forged to align  the goals of the UK’s National Semiconductor Strategy and the positive impact  to be expected. He suggested that ITRI can assist in establishing relevant  pilot lines by introducing necessary resources to address existing gaps or  offering consultation services covering design, packaging and testing prior to  mass production. This would help to reduce the UK’s reliance on external  suppliers and thus create job opportunities. To minimize the risk of supply chain  disruptions, the linkage of Taiwan’s complete  semiconductor industry chain can significantly enhance the UK’s resilience in  the global market as more comprehensive solutions can shorten time-to-market  for innovative products and accelerate overall industrial development. Other than the collaboration with CSA Catapult on gallium nitride  (GaN) semiconductor technologies, ITRI partnered with a British semiconductor  equipment manufacturer in 2021, resulting in achievements in areas such as  high-brightness light-emitting diodes (HB-LEDs), micro-electro-mechanical  systems MEMS), micro-LEDs, silicon photonics, and nanoscale analysis. In  the same year, ITRI worked with a British semiconductor IP manufacturer to  jointly build a platform that assists startup companies in leveraging key  patents to develop competitive new products. Based on the results, ITRI is set  to expand its collaborative efforts with the UK in 2023. 