CEA-Leti and Intel to co-develop atomically thin 2D TMDs on 300mm wafers Micro/nanotechnology R&D center CEA-Leti of  Grenoble, France and Intel of Santa Clara, CA, USA have  announced a joint research project to develop layer transfer  technology of two-dimensional transition-metal dichalcogenides (2D TMDs) on 300mm wafers with the goal to  extend Moore’s Law beyond 2030. 2D-layered semiconductors, such as  molybdenum- and tungsten-based TMDs, are promising candidates to extend Moore’s Law and ensure  ultimate scaling of MOSFET transistors, because 2D-FETs provide innate sub-1nm transistor channel thickness. They are  suitable for high-performance and low-power platforms due to their good carrier  transport and mobility, even for atomically thin layers. In addition, their  device body thickness and moderate energy bandgap lead to enhanced electrostatic control, and thus  to low off-state currents. These characteristics position 2D-FET stacked-nanosheet devices as  a promising solution for transistor scaling beyond 2030, which will require  high-quality 2D channel growth, adapted transfer and robust process  modules. To that end, the multi-year project will develop a viable  layer-transfer technology of high-quality 2D materials (grown on 300mm  preferred substrates) to another device substrate for transistor process  integration. Intel brings decades of R&D and manufacturing expertise to the  project and CEA-Leti also provides bonding and transfer-layer expertise and  large-scale characterization. “As we are relentlessly pushing Moore’s Law, 2D TMD  material is a promising option for extending the limits of transistor scaling  in the future,” says Robert  Chau, Intel senior fellow in Technology Development and director of  Intel Europe Research. “This research program focuses on developing a  viable 2D TMD-based technology in 300mm for future Moore’s Law  transistor scaling.” Intel brings its expertise in  semiconductor and packaging research  and technology to work with European partners to develop Moore’s Law  innovations and advance microelectronics in Europe. In 2022, Chau relocated from the USA  to Europe to lead Intel Europe Research and to drive Intel’s R&D with  partners on the continent. Intel and CEA-Leti have a long history of  collaboration in semiconductor design, processes and packaging technology. Most recently, in June 2022, they  announced a research breakthrough in a new die-to-wafer bonding technology  using a self-assembly process for future chip integration. Chau, who visited  CEA-Leti’s Grenoble headquarters on 16 June to emphasize the importance of their  collaborations and the launch of the project, has been a strong supporter of  multi-year research collaborations between the two entities. CEA-Leti’s CEO Sebastien Dauvé said industry roadmaps show that 2D  materials will be integrated in future microelectronic devices, and that  transfer capability in 300mm wafers will be key to that integration. “Due to  their high growth temperature exceeding 700°C and high-quality growth on  preferred substrates, it is difficult to stack 2D materials as usual thin  layers,” Dauvé adds. “So, transfer holds the most promise for integrating them in  future devices, and CEA-Leti’s strengths in this context are its expertise and  know-how in transfer development and characterization.” 