ROHM and Vitesco form $1bn SiC power semiconductor supply partnership for 2024–2030 Based on a development partnership since  2020 that optimized silicon carbide (SiC) chips for use in automotive  inverters, a long-term supply partnership has been formed for Japan-based  electronic parts maker ROHM Semiconductor to provide silicon carbide (SiC)  power semiconductors worth more than $1bn during 2024–2030  to Vitesco Technologies of Regensburg, Germany  (which develops and manufactures drive technologies and electrification  solutions for electro-mobility). Vitesco’s inverters with integrated ROHM SiC chips will be adopted  by two customers, to be applied inside electric vehicle power-trains. The  firm will start supplying a first series project as early as 2024, ahead of the  originally targeted timeline. Due to its wide energy bandgap, SiC has reduced conversion losses  compared to conventional silicon in power electronics. Especially at high  voltage levels such as 800V, SiC inverters are more efficient than silicon  models. Since 800V is the prerequisite for fast and thus convenient  high-voltage charging, SiC devices are at the beginning of a worldwide boom,  reckon the firms. Reduced conversion losses in the inverter are also  significant for the overall efficiency of electric driving and thus for range.  Competition for sufficient capacities in components made of silicon carbide  is correspondingly fierce.  Picture:    Dr Kazuhide Ino, ROHM board member, managing  executive officer & CFO (left) and Vitesco  Technologies’ CEO Andreas Wolf (right). “The supply partnership agreement with ROHM is an important  building block for securing Vitesco Technologies’ SiC capacities in the years  ahead,” commented Vitesco’s CEO Andreas Wolf at the signing ceremony in  Regensburg. “We have had very good experience in our development cooperation so  far and are now looking forward not only to continuing it but also to  intensifying it further,” he adds. “In the high-growth automotive market, SiC is a pathfinder for  higher efficiency,” noted Dr Kazuhide Ino, member of the board, managing  executive officer & chief financial officer of ROHM Co Ltd.  “With an expected higher market share of more than 30%, we are strongly  positioned here and have gained a strategic partner in Vitesco Technologies for  further market penetration.” 