Keysight introduces PathWave ADS 2024 EDA software suite Keysight Technologies Inc of Santa Rosa, CA, USA has introduced PathWave Advanced Design System (ADS) 2024, an  electronic design automation (EDA) software suite giving chip designers new  millimeter-wave (mmWave) and subterahertz (sub-THz) frequency capabilities that  accelerate 5G mmWave product design and anticipate requirements for 6G  wireless communications development. Developers of 5G and non-terrestrial network components are  creating next-generation radio front-end modules using mmWave frequency bands  that present significant design and simulation challenges. These frequencies are  prone to signal loss due to propagation characteristics, atmospheric  attenuation, complex packaging issues, and noise and dynamic range problems. Designing for 6G poses even greater  challenges with sub-THz signals operating at higher frequencies. Monolithic microwave integrated circuits  (MMIC) and module designers are combining multiple semiconductor and III-V  processes at mmWave frequencies, which requires multiple die assembly, module-level interconnection, and power  considerations. mmWave power amplifiers are built separately from the  rest of the design to mitigate heat, yield and semiconductor performance  issues. In addition, power amplifiers developed in gallium nitride (GaN) processes handle higher current densities than silicon. New semiconductor packaging techniques, such as flip-chip bonding,  achieve higher densities and performance. These packages also require co-design  across multiple technologies and processes because they concentrate challenges  with internal crosstalk, electromagnetic interference (EMI), stability, and  operating temperature. Keysight says that the latest version of its radio frequency and microwave (RF/μW)  design software suite addresses these development pain points with algorithm, layout, electro-thermal, and  workflow automation enhancements. Specifically, new PathWave ADS 2024  design capabilities include: “We use PathWave ADS for our mmWave power amplifier designs because it is a complete integrated  solution that gives us simulation models, layout tools, and the accuracy we  need to ensure first-pass success,” comments Doug Jorgesen, VP of applications at Marki Microwave. “ADS has a  unique Winslow Probe stability analysis capability that enables us to  optimize our amplifier designs with confidence. Our simulations closely match  our lab measurements, so we avoid expensive prototype re-spins on our designs.  ADS is our preferred tool for power amplifier  design,” he adds. “Traditional RF/μW EDA  workflows involve a variety of specialized solvers that require database  transfers, deep domain knowledge, and familiarity with multiple environments,”  says Joe Civello, Keysight’s PathWave  ADS product manager. “We’ve added more speed and performance  to ADS electromagnetic (EM) meshing and solving algorithms to improve sweeping  coverage through parameters like process variations and layout effects. RFPro  in PathWave ADS 2024 streamlines workflows into a unified  circuit-EM co-design cockpit where circuit designers can now perform EM  simulation to tune and optimize designs early in the development cycle,” he  adds. “ADS supports multi-technology design and analysis of thermal, EM and  layout parasitics on circuits and signal modulation. It enables rapid assembly  of circuits, MMICs, packaging, interconnects and module layouts to  significantly improve mmWave engineering productivity.” 