Transphorm announces rights offering to raise $15m Transphorm Inc of Goleta, near Santa Barbara, CA, USA — which designs and manufactures  JEDEC- and AEC-Q101-qualified gallium nitride  (GaN) field-effect transistors (FETs) for high-voltage power conversion — says that the independent  Financing Committee of its board of directors has approved a rights offering  available to all holders of record of the firm’s common stock, par value  $0.0001 as of 5pm Eastern Daylight Time on 26 June. If the rights offering is fully subscribed, the firm expects to  raise up to $15m, to be used for working capital and general corporate  purposes. It is also pursuing conventional asset-based debt financing  initiatives that, if consummated. Collectively, this provide working capital  well into its fiscal 2025. Transphorm says that, with the enhanced momentum in gallium nitride  power semiconductors, as evidenced by recent market activities, in its  fiscal second quarter it also intends to initiate a strategic review of  opportunities to enhance stockholder value. The firm’s strategic plans are not  yet finalized and are subject to market conditions and other uncertainties. The rights offering will be made through the distribution to all  holders of record of common stock (as  of the record date) of non-transferable subscription rights to purchase a  fraction of a share, at a ratio to be determined, for every one right held at a  subscription price to be determined prior to the commencement of the rights  offering. Stockholders may exercise their rights at any time during the  subscription period, which is currently expected to commence as soon as  reasonably practicable after the record date and expire no less than 16 days  thereafter. The rights offering will include an over-subscription right to  permit each rights holder that exercises its basic subscription right in full  to purchase additional shares of common stock (if any) that remain  unsubscribed at the expiration of the rights offering. The availability of the  over-subscription right will be subject to certain terms and restrictions to be  set forth in the prospectus supplement for the rights offering. If the total  subscriptions (basic subscriptions plus over-subscriptions) exceed the number  of shares offered in the rights offering, then the total over-subscription  amount will be pro-rated among the holders exercising their respective  over-subscription rights based on the basic subscription amounts of such  holders. The subscription rights are non-transferable and will not be  listed for trading on The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC or any other  stock exchange. The subscription rights may not be purchased or sold, and there  will not be any market for trading the rights. The shares of common stock to  be issued pursuant to the rights offering will be listed for trading on The Nasdaq  Stock Market LLC under the symbol ‘TGAN’. 