SK Powertech adopts Silvaco’s Victory TCAD solution for SiC power device development Silvaco Group Inc of Santa Clara, CA,  USA (which provides electronic design automation software and semiconductor design IP for process and device development) says that  South Korea’s SK Powertech (which  was founded in 2017, and became a part of SK Group  in May 2022) has adopted its Victory TCAD (technology computer-aided design) solution for power devices to accelerate R&D of its silicon carbide  (SiC) power devices. The Victory  TCAD solution is said to enable SK Powertech  to achieve significant improvements in its power management  technology. SK Powertech provides compact SiC power devices for high-voltage/high-temperature applications  serving growing end markets such as  electric vehicles, railways, and  alternative energy. The firm’s products are claimed to be optimal for smaller,  light-weight packages with high-voltage/high-temperature requirements. “To achieve significant advances in SiC power semiconductor performance, we sought a  partner who could assist us in implementing our next-generation SiC power  technology,” says Dr Changheon Yang,  director of R&D center at SK Powertech.  “Through our collaboration with Silvaco’s technical team and the utilization of  their Victory TCAD solution for  power devices, we successfully  transformed conceptual ideas into actual working devices. The combination of  the advanced feature set in Victory TCAD solution and Silvaco’s depth of  technical capabilities enables us to deliver the best products and to meet our  end-market requirements,” he adds. “The expanding markets for power management in solar, automotive,  industrial applications and embedded computers are driving the growing adoption  of SiC power devices,” says Silvaco Group CEO Dr Babak  Taheri. “The success of SK Powertech  demonstrates the benefits of using Silvaco Victory TCAD  solution for power devices. This  solution enables the development of cutting-edge semiconductor products that  drive innovation and advancement in the field,” he adds. “Our Victory TCAD solution is recognized in the semiconductor  industry for its simulation and analyses capabilities and is widely adopted in  the SiC power devices market,”  states Eric Guichard, senior VP  & general manager of Silvaco’s TCAD  business unit. “With Silvaco’s TCAD  solution, SK Powertech is well positioned to make significant  advancements in SiC power device  technology and to contribute to the adoption of its SiC devices in various  industries.” 