X-FAB leads EU-funded photonixFAB project to industrialize European silicon photonics value chain Analog/digital (mixed-signal) integrated circuit,  micro-electro-mechanical system (MEMS) and specialty semiconductor foundry  X-FAB Silicon Foundries SE of Tessenderlo, Belgium is spearheading a  strategic initiative aiming to enable the European semiconductor and photonics  industries to gain greater sovereignty, strengthening the continent’s  manufacturing capabilities in key emerging areas. The photonixFAB project  aims to empower photonics innovation by small- and medium-sized enterprises  (SMEs) and large entities by providing low-barrier access to both low-loss  silicon nitride (SiN)- and silicon-on-insulator (SOI)-based photonics  platforms with indium phosphide (InP) and lithium niobate-on-insulator  (LNO) heterogenous integration capabilities.  The photonixFAB consortium consists of major  public and private enterprises, plus research institutes – all focusing on the  development and production of next-generation silicon photonics. The  partners include technology and manufacturing service providers LIGENTEC, SMART Photonics,  PHIX Photonics Assembly and Luceda Photonics plus application  developers Nokia, NVIDIA, Aryballe, Brolis Sensor Technology and PhotonFirst,  as well as the research organizations CEA-Leti and IMEC. The objective is to establish a European  photonics device value chain and initial industrial manufacturing  capabilities, providing a path to scalable high-volume manufacturing for  innovative product developers. The photonixFAB consortium will span a  comprehensive set of photonics foundry and assembly capabilities, including: As a part of the project, six demonstrators are  being built to validate the implemented photonics value chains. These  include applications such as datacom and optical switches, a coherent optical  transceiver, an infrared (IR) spectrometer for sensing, a digital olfaction sensor  for consumer healthcare and a health monitoring demonstrator. Prospective opportunities for photonic devices  fabricated via the photonixFAB project have already been identified, including  data communications, telecoms, biomedical sensors/detectors, quantum computing  and vehicle LiDAR (light detection and ranging). “Seeing huge potential emerging there,  traditional semiconductor vendors, OEMs and start-ups are all now exploring  photonic-enabled applications,” says X-FAB’s CEO Rudi De Winter. “Consequently,  this is the right time for companies to work together on building an extensive  Europe-centric silicon photonics ecosystem that will help drive the  continent’s competitiveness in this exciting new market.” The project is being supported by the Key Digital  Technologies Joint Undertaking (KDT JU), with funding from the European Union  (EU), under grant agreement no. 101111896, plus top-up funding from national  authorities in Belgium, Germany, France, Israel, Italy, The Netherlands and  Switzerland. The combination of this funding plus direct investment from each  of the consortium members totals €47.6m. A major part of the work of this  3.5-year project will be conducted at X-FAB’s foundry operation in  Corbeil-Essonnes, France, with additional activities also undertaken at the  numerous other partners’ sites across Europe. 