First Solar announces limited production run of first bifacial thin-film PV module Cadmium telluride (CdTe) thin-film photovoltaic (PV) module maker First Solar Inc of Tempe, AZ, USA has announced a limited production run of  what it says is the first bifacial solar panel utilizing a thin-film semiconductor. A  fully functional pre-commercial Series 6 Plus Bifacial PV module is making its  industry debut at Intersolar Europe in Munich, Germany, where it is on display at  First Solar’s booth #520 in Hall A1 (14–17 June). The module, which is undergoing field and laboratory testing, builds on  the track record of First Solar’s Series 6 monofacial module  platform. It features a transparent back contact, pioneered by First Solar’s  R&D teams, which — in addition to enabling bifacial  energy gain — allows  infrared wavelengths of light to pass through rather than be absorbed as heat,  and is expected to lower the operational temperature of the bifacial module and  result in a higher specific energy yield. “This module combines the quality, sustainability, reliability and  long-term performance of our Series 6 Plus platform with our  first increment of bifaciality,” says chief product officer Pat Buehler.  “Once commercialized, we expect Series 6 Plus Bifacial  to represent the first real alternative to crystalline silicon-based bifacial  technology, effectively combining bifaciality with the industry’s best  warranted degradation rate, CdTe thin film’s ability to deliver more energy per  nameplate watt, best-in-class  reliability and durability, and innovative module design.” Series 6 Plus monofacial module features what is claimed to  be an industry-best 0.3% warranted degradation rate, superior temperature coefficient, spectral  response and shading behavior, and an anti-reflective coating to enhance energy  production. Moreover, unlike crystalline silicon (c-Si) panels, First Solar’s Series 6 Plus module does not experience losses from  light-induced degradation (LID) and light and elevated-temperature-induced  degradation (LeTID). The module is manufactured under one roof with 100% traceable quality assurance, exceeding  International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) standards in high temperature,  high humidity and extreme desert and coastal applications. In October 2022, First Solar announced that it would construct a new  R&D innovation center in Perrysburg, Ohio. Representing an investment of  about $370m, the facility is believed to be the first of its scale in the  Western Hemisphere and is expected to accelerate the development and production  of thin-film PV. Scheduled to be completed in 2024, the new R&D center will  be located near First Solar’s existing Perrysburg manufacturing facility,  covering an area of about 1.3 million square feet. It will feature a high-tech pilot  manufacturing line, allowing for the production of full-sized prototypes of  thin-film and tandem PV modules. 