pSemi launches 3.5GHz dual-channel switch + LNA module <1dB noise figure Murata company pSemi Corp of San Diego,  CA, USA – a fabless provider of radio-frequency integrated circuits  (RFICs) based on silicon-on-insulator (SOI) – has announced two  multi-chip modules  featuring dual-channel switches. The PE53230 for 3.3–3.8GHz and the PE53231 for  3.5–4.0GHz each contain two switches and two LNAs for high- and low-band  frequencies. The new module portfolio is said to deliver the industry’s lowest  noise figure, at  less than 1dB, enabling best-in-class receiver sensitivity and performance  while handling 20W average input power, enabling removal of external  circuitry. Built for applications across wireless  infrastructure including TDD-LTE macro and micro cells, 5G massive MIMO systems  and TDD-based communication systems, the new modules feature high gain and gain  flatness. They can function as a failsafe with unexpected high-power signals  coming in from Tx, while improving receiver channel sensitivity with low noise figures.  Combining high linearity (IIP3) with low power consumption, the new modules are  highly integrated solutions that do not require any external matching networks. “We are proud to set the record with  the lowest noise figure the industry has ever seen, delivering better receiver  sensitivity and higher performance for our customers’ systems,” says Vikas  Choudhary, VP of global sales, marketing & system engineering. “By  providing MIMO architecture with the highest level of integration of receiver  front end, we  achieve high power handling, high linearity, and low noise figure for 5G  mMIMO active antenna  systems – helping advance the entire wireless ecosystem.” Offered in a compact 6mm x 6mm LGA  package, the PE53230 and PE53231 products feature high gain of more than 36dB  and fast switching time of less than 600ns. With low power consumption of  less than 500mW/channel, the integrated solutions are claimed to lead the  industry with the highest average input power handling at 20W. Samples for the PE53230 and PE53231  are available now and are expected to be commercially available first-quarter  2024. 