pSemi unveils high-isolation SP4T switches with broadband frequency up to 8GHz Murata company pSemi Corp of San Diego, CA,  USA – a fabless provider of radio-frequency integrated circuits (RFICs)  based on silicon-on-insulator (SOI) – has unveiled its latest single-pole four-throw  (SP4T) switches with broadband frequency coverage up to 8GHz. The  PE42445 high-isolation 3mm x 3mm  package and the PE42446 high-isolation 4mm x 4mm package switches deliver high linearity and  what is claimed to be best-in-class isolation performance, essential in 5G base stations. The new switches are said to integrate  seamlessly into 4G and 5G base stations and mMIMO architecture, providing digital pre-distortion  (DPD) feedback loops and transmitter monitoring signal paths to prevent  interference and maintain signal integrity, given massive MIMO applications. Due to their high reliability and  extended operating temperature range, the new high-isolation SP4T switches can  be used for a wide variety of applications, including DPD and VSWR monitoring,  portable wireless radios, repeaters and E911 systems, and test and ATE  equipment. The new products offer “the highest  broadband frequency coverage of up to 8GHz for the first time in a  high-isolation SP4T switch,” claims Vikas Choudhary, VP of global sales,  marketing & system engineering. “The new SP4T switches offer many  advantages to customers building 5G base stations and mMIMO architecture –  including the highest isolation performance and high linearity. Additionally,  we are pleased to offer our customers a choice of the compact 3mm x 3mm or 4mm x 4mm form factor.” Offered in a 20-lead (3mm x 3mm) LGA  package and 24-lead (4mm x 4mm) LGA package, the PE42445 and PE42446 switches  offer greater than 60dB isolation, preventing interference and maintaining  signal integrity. They are built for extended operating temperatures ranging  from –40°C to  +125°C. Based on customer requirements for high-isolation SP4T switches, the  new products are designed for applications ranging from DPD feedback loops to  transmitter monitoring signal paths, with low insertion loss across  the band, high linearity of 60dBm IIP3, and fast switching time of 250ns. The PE42445/46 SP4T high-isolation  sample switches are available now and are expected to be commercially available  in fourth-quarter 2023. 