IntelliEPI and Riber MBE 8000 joint development program shows high thickness and doping uniformities across 8x6” or 4x8” wafer runs Milestones have been announced in the joint development program between  Intelligent  Epitaxy Technology Inc  (IntelliEPI) of Richardson, TX, USA – which manufactures MBE-grown epitaxial  wafers – and Riber S.A. of Bezons, France – which makes  molecular beam  epitaxy (MBE) systems as well as evaporation sources – regarding qualification of the latter’s new MBE 8000 production platform. As Riber’s new flagship, the MBE 8000 is reckoned to be the highest-capacity MBE production  tool available on the market, able to handle batches of eight 150mm (6-inch) or  four 200mm (8-inch) wafers. The design benefits from over 20 years’ experience in production  MBE systems running daily around the world, enabling what is claimed to be  outstanding process performances and stability, and thus reducing cost of ownership.  Picture: Riber’s new MBE 8000 production system. Following the delivery of the first MBE 8000 platform and thorough qualification work in close  cooperation with IntelliEPI, results have exceeded expectations for such  technology, particularly in terms of uniformities, defect densities, increasing yield,  and interface abruptness, which is key for superlattice structures to achieve  high-performance lasers. The performance, combined with a high level of run-to-run  repeatability control in large-scale production, will enable a new generation  of lasers, particularly for the fast-growing vertical-cavity surface-emitting  laser (VCSEL) sector, with  significant market opportunities in the field of smartphone under-display  facial recognition. In its latest report on VCSELs, market research firm Yole Group  states: a “major change expected is a  shift in wavelength from 940nm to 1380nm… to achieve an integration of the  VCSELs behind organic light-emitting diode (OLED) displays, which are  transparent at this wavelength. The first application could be the proximity  sensor being placed under the display…” In addition to the VCSEL market, the precise control of doping  uniformity and the processes stability offered by the MBE 8000 platform can also enhance  microelectronic device performances, such as conductivity, says Riber. Over the past few months,  as results were disclosed to several industrial customers, interest in the  machine has grown quickly, leading to discussions for potential purchase, Riber  adds. “From the initial evaluation so far,  this Riber MBE 8000 has shown very impressive performance in terms of  being able to produce high-quality epi materials over such a large substrate  platen area, with excellent composition and thickness uniformity across the  8x6” platen,” comments IntelliEPI’s president & CEO Yung-Chung Kao. “With  this improvement, the MBE 8000 platform offers a solution to make  large-scale production MBE technology more competitive, especially for  high-performance and high-throughput market opportunities,” he adds. “Thanks to the  efforts of Riber and IntelliEPI teams, we have reached a major step for MBE 8000  qualification. The results provided by the machine exceed our initial  objectives,” states Riber’s CEO Christian Dupont. “With an optimum cost of ownership  and large capacity, the MBE 8000 equipment has strong commercial  prospects,” he believes. “In addition, our milestone in this joint development  program with IntelliEPI demonstrates the capability to bring MBE technology in  high-volume semiconductor industry.” 