POET announces alpha sample availability of Infinity chiplet and testing with two lead customers POET Technologies Inc of Toronto, Ontario,  Canada — designer and developer of the POET Optical Interposer, photonic  integrated circuits (PICs) and light sources for the data-center,  telecom and artificial intelligence (AI) markets — has announced alpha sample readiness of POET Infinity, a chiplet-based  transmitter platform for 400G, 800G and 1.6T pluggable transceivers and  co-packaged optics solutions. Two  lead customers have agreed to partner with POET to test the alpha version. The Infinity chiplet complements the POET 800G 2xFR4  Receiver optical engine that the  firm announced in February, and completes the 800G chipset for 2xFR4 QSFP-DD or  OSFP applications with two Infinity chiplets and one Receiver optical engine. Both customers intend to develop  800G 2xFR4 QSFP-DD and OSFP transceiver solutions using the POET Optical Engine chipsets. The Infinity chiplet is said to be the industry’s  first implementation of directly modulated lasers (DMLs) for 100G/lane  applications. DMLs are power efficient,  cost effective and become a highly  scalable solution when paired with the POET Optical Interposer platform, the firm says. The chiplet  incorporates 100G PAM4 DMLs, DML drivers  and an integrated optical multiplexer  for a complete 400GBASE-FR4 transmitter solution on a chip. The small size of  the chiplet and a daisy-chain architecture enables side-by-side placement of  multiple instances to achieve 800G and 1.6T speeds. The Infinity product  line carries forward the POET differentiation of all passive alignments and  monolithically integrated waveguides, multiplexers and demultiplexers, which is  said to translate to lower cost,  lower power consumption and  ease-of-assembly benefits for customers. “The availability of a transmitter solution for 400G, 800G and  1.6T speeds that is power efficient,  cost effective and highly scalable  for the data-center market is a major achievement,” reckons chairman & CEO Dr Suresh Venkatesan. “Our customers are  excited to receive the samples and test them because it simplifies their  transceiver design significantly and shortens the design cycle with POET optical engines  that incorporate all of the required optical elements  as well as the key electronic components, including laser drivers and trans-impedance amplifiers.” The development of a production version of the POET Infinity chiplet is on track and the firm expects to deliver beta samples by fourth-quarter 2023 and start production by  first-half 2024. The Ethernet transceiver market for 400G-and-above data rates is projected by market research  firm Lightcounting  to exceed $6bn by 2028. 