Lumentum upsizes convertible notes offering from $500m to $525m Lumentum Holdings Inc of San Jose, CA, USA (which designs  and makes optical and photonic products for optical networks and lasers for  industrial and consumer markets) has announced the pricing of its offering of $525m worth of  convertible senior notes due 2029 in a private placement to qualified institutional buyers (pursuant to  Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended). The offering  was increased from the previously announced $500m (or $575m if the initial  purchasers exercise their option to purchase additional notes in full).  Lumentum granted the initial purchasers of the notes a 13-day option to  purchase up to an additional $78.75m of the notes. The sale of the notes to the  initial purchasers is expected to settle on 16 June  (subject to customary closing conditions), and is expected to result in net  proceeds of about $520.1m (or $598.2m, if the initial purchasers fully exercise  their option to purchase additional notes) after deducting the initial  purchasers’ discount and estimated offering expenses payable by Lumentum. The notes will  be senior, unsecured obligations of Lumentum, and will bear interest at a rate  of 1.50% per year, payable semi-annually in arrears on 15 June and 15 December  of each year, beginning on 15 December  2023. The notes will mature on 15 December  2029, unless earlier converted, redeemed or repurchased. Lumentum intends  to (i) use about $132.8m of the net proceeds to repurchase about $125m of its  0.250% convertible senior notes due 2024, and (ii) purchase about $125m of  its common stock, in each case  concurrently with the pricing of the offering in privately negotiated  transactions effected through one of the initial purchasers of the notes or its  affiliate, as its agent. Lumentum intends to use the remaining net proceeds for  general corporate purposes, which may include the repayment or repurchase of  its indebtedness, including any of its existing convertible notes, capital  expenditures, working capital and potential acquisitions. Holders of the  2024 notes that are repurchased in the concurrent repurchases may purchase  shares of Lumentum’s common stock in the open market to unwind any hedge  positions they may have with respect to the 2024 notes. These activities may  affect the trading price of Lumentum’s common stock and the initial conversion  price of the notes. Additionally, the concurrent repurchases of shares of  common stock may result in the  common stock trading at prices that  are higher than would be the case in the absence of these repurchases. The initial  conversion rate for the notes is 14.3808 shares of Lumentum’s common stock per $1000 of notes (equivalent to  an initial conversion price of about  $69.54 per share) and is subject to  adjustment upon the occurrence of certain events. Prior to the close of  business on the business day  immediately preceding 15 September  2029, the notes will be convertible at the option of the noteholders upon  satisfaction of specified conditions and during certain periods. Thereafter,  until the close of business on the second scheduled trading day preceding the  maturity date, the notes will be convertible at the option of the noteholders  at any time regardless of these conditions. Conversions of the notes will be  settled in cash, shares of common stock  or a combination of cash and shares of common stock,  with the form of consideration at Lumentum’s election. The initial conversion price represents a premium of about 30%  over the last reported sale price of Lumentum’s common stock on 13 June  of $53.49 per share. Lumentum may  redeem for cash all or any portion of the notes, at its option (subject to  certain limitations), on or after 22 June  2026, if the last reported sale price of its common stock has been at least  130% of the conversion price then in effect for at least 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during  any 30 consecutive trading-day period (including the last trading day of such period) ending on, and  including, the trading day  immediately preceding the date on which Lumentum provides notice of redemption  at a redemption price equal to 100% of the notes to be redeemed, plus accrued  and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the redemption date. No sinking fund is  provided for the notes. 