WIN releases next-gen mmWave E-mode/D-mode GaAs pHEMT technology WIN  Semiconductors Corp of Taoyuan City, Taiwan – which provides  pure-play gallium arsenide (GaAs) and gallium nitride (GaN) wafer  foundry services for the wireless, infrastructure, and networking markets – has announced the commercial release of  its PQG3-0C next-generation integrated millimeter-wave (mmWave) GaAs platform. Targeting mmWave  front ends, the PQG3-0C technology  combines individually optimized enhancement-mode (E-mode)  low-noise and depletion-mode (D-mode)  power pseudomorphic high-electron-mobility  transistors (pHEMTs) to enable what is claimed to be best-in-class power amplifier (PA) and low-noise amplifier (LNA) performance on the  same chip. The E-mode/D-mode pHEMTs have a threshold frequency (ƒt)  of 110GHz and 90GHz respectively, and both employ 0.15µm T-shaped gates  fabricated by deep-ultraviolet stepper technology. Deep UV photolithography is a proven, high-volume manufacturing  technique for short-gate-length devices and eliminates the throughput  constraints of traditional electron-beam patterning. Offering two  application-specific mmWave transistors with RF switches  and ESD protection diodes, PQG3-0C  supports a wide range of front-end functions with increased on-chip  functionality.  Both E-mode and  D-mode transistors can be used for mmWave amplification and operate at 4V. The  D-mode pHEMT targets power amplifiers  and provides over 0.6W/mm with 11dB linear gain  and close to 50% power-added efficiency  (PAE) when measured at 29GHz. The E-mode pHEMT  operates best as a single-supply LNA and delivers minimum noise figure below 0.7dB at 30GHz with 8dB  associated gain, and third-order  output intercept (OIP3) of 26dBm. The PQG3-0C  platform is manufactured on 150mm GaAs substrates and provides two interconnect  metal layers with low-k dielectric  crossovers, PN-junction diodes for  compact ESD protection circuits, and  RF switch transistors. With a final  chip thickness of 100µm, a backside groundplane with through-wafer vias (TWV) are standard and can be  configured as through-chip RF transitions to eliminate the adverse impact of  bond wires at millimeter-wave frequencies. PQG3-0C also supports flip-chip  packaging and can be delivered with Cu-pillar bumps fabricated in WIN’s  internal bumping line. WIN is showcasing  its compound semiconductor RF and mm-Wave solutions in booth #235 at  the 2023 International Microwave Symposium at the San Diego Convention Center,  San Diego, CA, USA (11–16 June). 