NUBURU private placement raises $7.925m from existing investors NUBURU Inc of Centennial, CO, USA — which  conducts research, development, design and manufacturing of high-power,  high-brightness industrial blue lasers — has entered into definitive agreements primarily with  certain existing investors to receive a cash infusion of $7.925m (prior to  deducting transaction and issuance costs) through an offering of (i)  convertible promissory notes and  (ii) warrants to purchase shares of common stock.  The shares underlying the convertible notes  and warrants are subject to a one-year lock up  and are expected to be registered for resale on a registration statement on  Form S-3 after 6 February 2024. “With this cash infusion the company will be in a better position  to continue to execute its commercialization efforts with respect to its  current products and its development efforts with respect to its product  pipeline,” comments CEO & co-founder Dr Mark  Zediker. “The transaction provides important growth capital and bolsters the company’s balance sheet,” notes chief  financial officer Brian Knaley. “We  intend to deploy this capital in a careful and efficient matter with the aim of  accruing long-term benefits for our stockholders.” NUBURU is issuing the convertible notes and warrants in an initial  closing of $2m, and in a subsequent closing of $5.925m expected on 23 June. Upon conversion of the convertible  notes, the firm would issue up to 11.5 million  shares of common stock. Upon  exercise of the warrants, which would generate additional proceeds of up to  $11.9m, the firm would issue up to 11.5 million  shares (subject to customary adjustments). NUBURU  may issue additional shares if it elects to pay interest in kind on the  convertible notes. The convertible notes bear interest at the rate of 7% per year,  mature on 23 June 2026 (unless  redeemed, repurchased or converted prior to such date), have a conversion price  equal to $0.688 (representing a premium of $0.01 over the closing price of the  prior trading day) and are senior, unsecured obligations of the company. The  warrants have an exercise price equal to $1.03 (representing a premium of 50%  over the conversion price) and expire on 23 June  2028. According to the NYSE American LLC  Company Guide, consummating the  transactions pursuant to the purchase agreement  would ordinarily require the approval of the stockholders. However, NUBURU has sought and received from NYSE  American an exception from obtaining such stockholder approval pursuant to Section 710(b)  of the Company Guide. A special  committee of NUBURU’s board of  directors, consisting solely of independent, disinterested directors, has  expressly approved the firm’s reliance on this exception, and the transaction  was also unanimously approved by the board. 