Guerrilla RF launches ½W InGaP HBT power amplifiers with 26dBm linear power for 5G infrastructure without DPD, CFR or ET Guerrilla RF Inc (GRF) of Greensboro,  NC, USA — a provider of radio-frequency (RF) and microwave communication  solutions for wireless OEMs — has  released the GRF5607 and  GRF5608, the  first in a new class of ½W linear power amplifiers  being developed. The indium gallium phosphide  (InGaP) heterojunction bipolar transistor (HBT)  amplifiers were designed specifically for 5G wireless infrastructure  applications requiring exceptional native linearity over temperature extremes  of –40°C to 85°C. Spanning frequency ranges of 703–748MHz and 746–830MHz  respectively, the GRF5607 and GRF5608 are tuned to operate within the n12, n14,  n18, n20 and n28 5G new radio  (NR) bands. The devices typically deliver 26dBm of linear power over the entire  –40°C to 85°C temperature range while maintaining ACLR (adjacent-channel leakage ratio) levels of  better than –45dBc and EVM (error vector  magnitude) levels <1.2% — all without the aid of supplemental  linearization schemes like digital pre-distortion (DPD), crest factor reduction (CFR) or envelope tracking (ET). The ability to beat the –45dBc ACLR performance metric without DPD  is critical for cellular applications like home and commercial  repeaters/boosters, femtocells and picocells, as well as cable loss compensators which are used  in conjunction with automotive ‘shark fin’  antennas. In each of these use cases,  the sensitivity to cost, power and size constraints prohibits the use of  elaborate linearization techniques like DPD. Instead, designers must rely on  the power amplifier’s  native linearity to meet the stringent emissions mask requirements imposed by  the latest 5G standards. “The GRF56xx series directly builds upon the market success of the  company’s previously released ¼W family of power amplifiers,”  says Jim Ahne, VP of Automotive and 5G Products. “As announced last November, Guerrilla RF has made significant inroads into the automotive  cellular market, and these power amplifiers  represent a significant piece of its established business. By essentially  doubling the output power, GRF is enabling customers to increase the range of  their systems by up to 40%,” he adds. “Given that these new devices are pin-pin  compatible with the previously released GRF55xx series, customers now have an  easy path to upgrading the range capabilities of their existing repeater/booster  and compensator platforms. The new series also ensures Guerrilla RF maintains its dominant position within  this rapidly growing market segment.” The GRF5607 and GRF5608 come in pin-compatible 3mm x 3mm,  16-pin QFN packages. Samples and evaluation boards are available now. Prices  start at $1.76 (in 10,000-unit quantities, EXW USA). 