ams OSRAM adds 640nm Red to OSLON Optimal horticultural LED Series ams OSRAM GmbH of Premstätten, Austria and Munich, Germany has extended its OSLON Optimal family of horticultural lighting LEDs with  a new 640nm Red LED, which enables indoor farmers to produce faster and  healthier plant growth. Providing  broader coverage of the red portion of the spectrum, the new 640nm Red LED (which  can be ordered now in production volumes, using part number GR CSSRML.24)  joins the 660nm Hyper Red and 730nm Far Red in the OSLON  Optimal family, which also includes a 450nm Deep Blue LED and a horti white  LED.  Picture:   Horticultural growth application  for the OSLON Optimal Red LED. Image: ams OSRAM. It has been  common practice in horticulture to illuminate crops with a mix of 660nm, 450nm  and 730nm, or 660nm and white LEDs for plants that require  full-spectrum light. Initial research conducted by Wageningen University on  behalf of ams OSRAM  shows that a double red peak (640nm and 660nm) in combination with horti white  increases the dried biomass level in indoor growing environments. In addition,  the use of the OSLON Optimal Red helps to prevent photo bleaching  in some plant varieties. Experience shows that it can also prevent the  incidence of fungal and bacterial infection in leafy greens such as basil. The firm  reckons that the new OSLON Optimal Red product can play an important role in  raising energy efficiency and reducing the cost of electric power  in all horticultural lighting applications, including greenhouse top-lighting  and inter-lighting, and vertical farming. Producing 3.53µmol/J, it achieves  very high wall-plug efficiency of 66.3 %. The LED’s radiant flux  is 485mW, and photon flux is 2.58µmol/s. Peak wavelength is 640nm and the  dominant wavelength is 630nm. “The discovery  of new recipes that include a double red peak of Hyper Red  and Red is helping growers produce more biomass and maintain superior plant  health,” says marketing manager Thomas Grebner. “With the introduction of  the OSLON Optimal Red LED, horticultural lighting equipment  manufacturers can achieve very high levels of efficiency and reliability.” 