WIN releases 50V RF GaN technology for high-power MMICs WIN Semiconductors Corp of  Taoyuan City, Taiwan – which provides pure-play gallium arsenide  (GaAs) and gallium nitride (GaN) wafer foundry services for the wireless,  infrastructure, and networking markets – has announced  the commercial release of NP25-20, a 50V  0.25µm-gate RF GaN platform, targeting  high-performance front-end applications including radio access networks,  satellite communications, electronic warfare  and radar systems. The NP25-20 technology supports full monolithic microwave  integrated circuits (MMICs) enabling  customers to design compact, linear or saturated high-power amplifiers, rugged  low-noise amplifiers and single-chip  front-end solutions through 18GHz. The NP25-20 gallium nitride  technology employs a source-coupled field plate  for improved breakdown voltage and  operates at a drain bias of 50V. The  technology is fabricated on 100mm silicon carbide  (SiC) substrates with through-wafer vias for low-inductance grounding. At  X-band, NP25-20 demonstrates what is claimed to be excellent transmit and  receive performance with saturated output power  of 10W/mm,18dB linear gain and 60%  power-added efficiency (PAE). When  biased for noise performance at 10GHz, NP25-20 provides minimum noise figure of 0.8dB with 12dB associated  gain. The combination of power density  and superb noise figure from NP25-20  enables high-performance single-chip front ends  without sacrificing transmit power or receiver sensitivity, claims WIN. “The performance versatility of NP25-20 is unique for RF gallium nitride technology. A GaN MMIC platform  with 10W/mm output power alone is an  achievement,” says David Danzilio, senior VP  at WIN. “Combining surprising noise performance with high-power switching in  the same device creates a new toolset for customers to commercialize  market-leading products for a wide range of applications.” WIN is showcasing its compound semiconductor  RF and mm-Wave solutions in booth #235  at the 2023 International Microwave Symposium at the San Diego Convention Center,  San Diego, CA, USA (11–16 June). 