IQE appoints senior VP, Communications Infrastructure and Security Epiwafer and substrate maker IQE plc of Cardiff, Wales, UK  has appointed Peter Rabbeni as senior VP, Communications  Infrastructure and Security business unit, leading the firm’s expansion  within the communications infrastructure, data center, and aerospace and  security markets. Picture:  Peter  Rabbeni, IQE’s senior VP, Communications Infrastructure and Security  business unit. Rabbeni has decades of experience  in the semiconductor industry, including significant executive experience in  business development and sales across the wireless industry, underpinned by a  background in product design and engineering. Rabbeni joins IQE after over a  decade in executive roles at GlobalFoundries Inc (GF), where he was most  recently responsible for foundry sales partnerships and business development,  leading the regional strategy for growing foundry sales partnerships and  business development as well as restructuring the Aerospace and Defence  segment. Before that, he was VP of the Wireless Infrastructure and  Satellite Communications business unit. Before joining GF, Rabbeni held various leadership roles at  IBM, as well as multiple RF  systems and circuit design engineering positions at Ericsson, Raytheon and the  US Army Millimeter Wave Lab. Rabbeni received his BSEE degree from the Stevens Institute of Technology  in 1986 and an MSEE with a concentration in RF systems design from the  University of Massachusetts in 1991. He is an alumnus of the IBM Executive Management program and the Executive  Program for Growing Companies at Stanford University. Rabbeni is also a member of the IEEE. “Peter is an industry expert with a  solid track record of success across global businesses including  GlobalFoundries, IBM and Raytheon,” comments CEO Americo Lemos. “He brings a  wealth of knowledge of the semiconductor ecosystem and deep customer  relationships to IQE. His vast experience will help drive value creation  and value capture for IQE, and enable us to deliver our strategic goals.” “Compound semiconductors are a  tremendously exciting technology with huge growth potential across multiple  applications,” says Rabbeni. “I look forward to partnering with IQE’s customers  and industry-leading experts to deliver innovation and success.” 