Qorvo adds PA modules for 5G mMIMO wireless systems Qorvo Inc of Greensboro, NC, USA (which provides  core technologies and RF solutions for mobile, infrastructure and defense  applications) has expanded  its family of products for 5G base stations. The QPB3810 is a gallium nitride  (GaN)-based power amplifier module (PAM) with integrated bias control  for 5G massive MIMO (mMIMO) applications. The new QPB9362  is a highly integrated front-end low-noise amplifier (LNA) module  targeting 5G TDD systems. The devices extend Qorvo’s product portfolio  supporting mMIMO applications and are key building blocks in a new RF front-end reference design that accelerates adoption of mMIMO systems. “We are pleased to continue our close cooperation with Qorvo to  enable high-performance 5G solutions using industry-leading AMD Zynq  UltraScale RFSoC DFE devices,” says Anthony Collins, director 5G Radio and  RF Ecosystem, at AMD. “Collaborating to deliver proven and optimized  reference designs to our mutual customers is key to reducing risk and  enabling faster time to market for their radio products.” QPB3810 is a 48V, 8W average power PAM covering the 3.4–3.8GHz  band, and is said to be the first commercially released GaN-based module with  an integrated bias controller factory-programmed to set the optimal bias points  of the Doherty PAM. The controller includes a temperature sensor that  automatically adjusts bias over temperature and includes an enable pin for fast  TDD switching. The QPB3810 is available in a compact 12mm x 8mm SMT  package, offering a much smaller footprint than traditional discrete component  solutions. Like Qorvo’s other PAM products, the QPB3810 requires minimal  external circuitry. Linearity has been validated to exceed 5G requirements over  400MHz instantaneous bandwidth using the AMD Zynq Ultrascale+ RFSoC DFE  Adaptive Radio SoC and Digital Pre-Distortion IP. The QPB9362 is targeted for 5G wireless infrastructure applications  configured for TDD-based mMIMO architectures. The switch LNA module  integrates an LNA with a high-power handling switch which can be used as a  failsafe path to termination when a radio is transmitting. The QPB9362 provides  34.5dB of gain with 1.1dB typical noise figure over the entire operating frequency  band in the receiving mode. LNA power-down mode is available via a  transmit/receive control pin on the module. It is packaged in a  RoHS-compliant, compact 5mm x 3mm LGA package. “Qorvo's 5G modules provide optimal solutions that minimize cost,  maximize performance and increase capacity for mMIMO designs,” says Tuan  Nguyen, product line director for the Infrastructure Solutions business.  “These two modules support the continued expansion of 5G technology around the  globe with much greater integration at the board level and exemplify our  focus on ease of use and efficiency.” The QPB3810 and QPB9362 are included in a full RF front-end reference design for 5G mMIMO applications now available from Qorvo. This  small-form-factor reference design provides a transmit/receive RF solution  from the baseband front-end to the antenna filter. The transmit lineup includes  the QPA9122M wideband high-linearity pre-driver, the QPB3810  directional coupler for DPD observation, and a circulator. The receive path  includes the QPB9362. 