Mitsubishi Electric develops SBD-embedded SiC-MOSFET with new structure for power modules During the 35th International  Symposium on Power Semiconductor Devices and ICs (ISPSD 2023) in Hong Kong  (28 May–1 June), Tokyo-based Mitsubishi Electric Corp has  developed a new structure for a silicon carbide metal-oxide-semiconductor  field-effect transistor (SiC-MOSFET) embedded with a Schottky barrier  diode (SBD), which it has applied in the FMF 800 DC-66 BEW 3.3kV  full-SiC power module for large industrial equipment such as railways and  DC power systems. Samples began shipping on 31 May. The chip’s new  structure is expected to help to downsize railway traction systems etc, as  well as to make them more energy efficient, and contribute to carbon  neutrality through the increased adoption of DC power transmission.  Figure 1: Newly developed chip structure  (top: chip section; bottom: parallel-connected chips). SiC power  semiconductors are attracting attention due to their capacity to significantly  reduce power loss. Mitsubishi Electric, which commercialized SiC power modules  equipped with SiC-MOSFETs and SiC-SBDs in 2010, has adopted SiC power semiconductors  for a variety of inverter systems, including air conditioners and  railways. Compared with the  conventional method of using separate chips, a chip that integrates a SiC-MOSFET  and a SiC-SBD can be mounted in a module more compactly, enabling smaller  modules, larger capacity and lower switching loss. It is expected to be  widely used in large industrial equipment such as railways and electric power  systems. Until now, the practical application of power modules with  SBD-embedded SiC-MOSFETs has been difficult due to their relatively low  surge-current capability, which results in the thermal destruction of the chips  during surge-current events because surge currents in connected circuits  concentrate only in specific chips. Mitsubishi  Electric has now developed what it claims is the first mechanism by which surge current  concentrates on a specific chip in a parallel-connected chip structure inside a  power module, and a new chip structure in which all chips start energizing  simultaneously so that surge current is distributed throughout each chip.  As a result, the power module’s surge-current capacity has been improved  by a factor of five or more compared with the firm’s existing technology, which  is equal to or greater than that of conventional silicon power modules, enabling  the application of an SBD-embedded SiC-MOSFET in a power module. Figure 2: SBD-embedded SiC-MOSFET integrating  a SiC MOSFET and a  SiC SBD. In conventional  SiC power modules, SiC-MOSFETs are used for switching and SiC-SBDs are used for  rectifying, with the two separately manufactured chips being connected in  parallel. Conversely, Mitsubishi Electric’s SBD-embedded SiC-MOSFET (Figure 2)  integrates the two chips by periodically forming the SiCSBD in the SiC-MOSFET  unit cell. Figure 3: Conventional current-concentration mechanism on a specific  chip. Conventionally,  when surge current flows through multiple SBD-embedded MOSFET chips connected  in parallel, the surge current is concentrated only on a specific chip, preventing  the surge current withstand capability corresponding to the number of  parallel chips from being obtained. Physical and device simulation  analyses have now revealed that surge current is concentrated on a specific  chip if the dimensions of that chip’s built-in SBD vary even slightly from  other chips, which is not uncommon, causing that specific chip to initiate a  surge current flow before the other chips (Figure 3). Since the size  variation needs only be extremely minor, such variations are basically impossible  to avoid in normal chip manufacturing processes. Figure 4: New structure avoids current concentration on a specific chip. To prevent surge  current from concentrating on specific chips, Mitsubishi Electric has developed  a new chip structure in which the built-in SBD is not placed in a unit cell  that occupies less than 1% of the total chip area. This unit cell has  a structure that allows surge current to flow faster than other unit cells  with SBDs, and is unaffected by dimensional variations due to the absence of  SBDs. Therefore, surge current can start energizing simultaneously in the  corresponding unit cells of all chips without SBDs. In addition, because  the surge current reduces resistance of the surrounding SiC, the  energizing of the surge current is also triggered in the surrounding unit cells  where the surge current is energized, in a chain reaction. This phenomenon  causes surge current to propagate throughout the entire chip area,  starting from the unit cell where the SBD is not present. Consequently,  surge current is distributed over all areas of all chips, preventing thermal  breakdown of the chip due to the concentration of surge currents on a particular  chip, thereby increasing the surge current withstand capability  (Figure 4). Figure 5: Improved surge-current capability  due to new technology. Using the new  chip structure, the surge current capability of the SBD-embedded SiC-MOSFET in  parallel connection has been improved by more than five times compared with the  firm’s existing technology, which is equal to or greater than that of widely  used conventional silicon power modules. Furthermore,  because of the chain reaction of surge current, a small portion (less than 1%)  of the total chip area is sufficient for a unit cell without the  built-in SBD, and there is no effect on power module characteristics such  as low ON-resistance and low switching loss due to the reduced area of the  built-in SBD. As a result, chips can be connected in parallel, a requirement  for power modules intended for high-power applications such as railways  and electric power systems, thus allowing SBD-embedded SiC-MOSFET to be used in  power modules. 