Smartphone production falls by record 19.5% year-on-year to ten-year quarterly low of 250 million units in Q1/2023 Market research firm TrendForce reports that global  production of smartphones fell by a record 19.5% year-on-year to only 250 million units in first-quarter 2023, a  historic low in quarterly production since 2014, as the ongoing global economic  downturn continues to impact consumer confidence in the market.  Samsung produced 61.5 million  units, down 16.7% year-on-year but up 5.5% quarter-on-quarter due to the launch  of its Galaxy S23 series. However,  TrendForce predicts a nearly 10% drop in Q2 production due to weakening demand  for new models. Apple’s production fell by 11.9% year-on-year and 27.5% quarter-on-quarter  to 53.3 million units in Q1. The new  iPhone 14 series accounted for about  78% of this, an improvement on a year ago. However, as the firm navigates the  transition period between model launches, production is expected to fall by 20%  in Q2. In light of unsatisfactory market conditions and necessary  inventory adjustments, brands such as China’s Oppo (which includes Oppo, Realme  and OnePlus) made strategic moves to reduce production in Q1, by 17% quarter-on-quarter  to 26.8 million units. However,  TrendForce forecasts a more than 30% rise in production in Q2, due to  successful inventory management and a moderate demand resurgence in Southeast Asia and other regions. In addition to  continuously strengthening its market share  of high-end models in China, Oppo has achieved notable sales success in South Asia, Southeast Asia, and Latin America.  In fact, its overseas market accounts for nearly 60% of its total sales. Xiaomi (which includes Xiaomi, Redmi and POCO) saw its production  volume fall by 27.4% quarter-to-quarter to 26.5 million  units in Q1. This can be attributed largely to a global dip in consumer  confidence and an overstocked inventory of finished products at Xiaomi, leading  to restrained production plans. Due to ongoing inventory adjustments in Q2,  quarterly production growth is projected to be capped, to a modest estimated  increase of about 20%. Concurrently, Vivo (including Vivo and iQoo) saw its production  fall by 14.2% quarter-to-quarter to 20 million  units in Q1. While China continues to be the primary market for Vivo’s sales, Chinese  market demand remains stagnant in Q2, following the reopening of the country’s  borders. Production is hence expected to grow only modestly, by about 10%. The continuous economic slump has led to increased activity in the  used phone and repair markets, which  could potentially hinder total smartphone production growth in Q2.  Nevertheless, production is forecasted to grow by about 5% quarter-on-quarter  in Q2, to 260 million units.  However, due to the unfavorable economic environment, TrendForce forecasts that  smartphone production will still fall by 10% year-on-year. 