NXP launches top-side-cooled RF amplifier modules NXP Semiconductors N.V. of Eindhoven, The Netherlands has launched a family  of top-side-cooled RF amplifier modules, based on a packaging innovation  designed to enable thinner and lighter radios for 5G infrastructure. These  smaller base stations can be more  easily and cost-effectively installed, and blend more discretely into their  environment. NXP’s GaN multi-chip module series, combined with the industry’s  first top-side-cooling solution for RF power, helps to reduce not only the thickness  and weight of the radio by more than 20% but also the carbon footprint for the  manufacture and deployment of 5G base stations. “Top-side cooling represents a significant  opportunity for the wireless infrastructure industry, combining high-power  capabilities with advanced thermal performance to enable a smaller RF subsystem,” says  Pierre Piel, VP & general manager for Radio Power at NXP. “This innovation delivers a  solution for the deployment of more environmentally friendly base stations, while also  enabling the network density needed to realize the full performance benefits of  5G.”  NXP’s new top-side-cooled devices are said to  deliver significant design and manufacturing benefits, including the removal of  the dedicated RF shield, use of cost-effective and streamlined printed circuit board, and  separation of thermal management from RF design. These features help networking  solution providers to create slimmer and lighter 5G radios for mobile network operators,  while reducing their overall design cycle. NXP’s first top-side-cooled RF power module series is  designed for 32T32R, 200W radios covering 3.3–3.8GHz  frequencies. The devices combine the firm’s in-house LDMOS and gallium nitride GaN technologies to  enable high gain and efficiency with wideband performance, delivering 31dB gain and 46%  efficiency over 400MHz of instantaneous bandwidth. The A5M34TG140-TC, A5M35TG140-TC and  A5M36TG140-TC products are available now. The A5M36TG140-TC will be supported  by NXP’s RapidRF reference board series. 