CML Micro changes focus to exhibit RF-to-mmWave semiconductor capability at IMS UK-based  CML Microsystems Plc, a designer and fabless manufacturer of mixed-signal, RF and microwave semiconductors for wireless communications applications, says that its  presence in booth 655 at the IEEE  International Microwave Symposium (IMS 2023)  exhibition in San Diego, CA, USA (13–15 June) will reflect an expansion of its  technology offering, as the firm is now developing more advanced RF, microwave  and mmWave devices for transformative applications centred around its SµRF  product range of gallium arsenide (GaAs)- and gallium nitride (GaN)-based devices. “Our booth at this year’s IMS will unveil  a change of branding that represents much more than a simple refresh of our  image,” says Ion Furtuna, senior VP for sales & business  development in the Americas. “Building on our years of experience in baseband  and RF components for professional wireless and critical communications  applications, we have recently acquired capabilities to extend our innovation  into microwave and mmWave devices, including PAs [power amplifiers],  LNAs [low-noise amplifiers] and gain blocks up to 100GHz,” he adds.  “Our eventual target is to reach new markets including security and defence.” Among the CML Micro products on show at  IMS are the recently introduced CMX90B701 and CMX90B702 low-current low-noise gain blocks for the 17–23GHz and 23–29.5GHz  bands, respectively. Both devices have ultra-low current consumption of 10mA with a typical output power at 1dB gain compression point (P1dB)  figure of +7.5dBm, a third-order  intercept point (IP3) output of +17.5dBm and a noise figure of 4dB. The devices are housed in  a low-cost 3mm x 3mm QFN package, and are fully matched to  50Ω. “We plan to continue expanding our  microwave device capability for the rapidly growing 5G mmWave, wireless  infrastructure and Ka-band satcom markets, while consolidating our position as  a trusted supplier of devices into our traditional RF and wireless  communications markets that include maritime, smart meters, RFID, IoT and  asset tracking,” says managing director Mark McCabe. “Our customers  already choose to partner with CML Micro because of our reputation for  quality and technical expertise, as well as our problem-solving and  collaborative approach to innovation. By pushing the boundaries of our  technology towards higher frequencies and bandwidths, we look forward to  developing exciting new partnerships as well as continuing to serve our  traditional core markets.” 