New Space Enterprise Lab opens at CSA Catapult in South Wales The latest addition to the UK’s Satellite  Applications Catapult’s network of Space Enterprise Labs (SEL)  has opened at the Compound Semiconductor  Applications (CSA) Catapult in Newport, South Wales, providing companies and academics  access to the latest collaborative technology, resources and expertise. The services at the Space Enterprise Labs enable the virtual  delivery of “meetings, business sprints, user engagement spark  sessions and other services, such as virtual whiteboards and built-in video  conferencing” for everyone within the UK space sector to utilize. The Space Enterprise Labs were created in response to the changing  needs of space organizations since the global pandemic and a need to  collaborate virtually with stakeholders in many locations. They are free to use  and open to existing space organizations and academic institutions across the UK.  Located across the country, Space Enterprise Labs provide users with Zoom  licenses, virtual reality headsets and access to Microsoft Surface Hubs as  well as a modern, professional and safe working environment. CSA Catapult is applying compound semiconductor technologies  to space applications, supporting a network of space-based businesses and  organizations across the country. Specifically, compound semiconductors  enable a number of space-based applications where harsh environments,  temperature range and reliability are all major considerations, which  enables CSA Catapult’s expertise in advanced packaging and harsh environmental  and reliability testing to be utilized. “We are delighted to be launching the Space  Enterprise Labs as we continue to support the growth of the space sector across  the UK,” says Satellite Applications  Catapult’s chief operations officer Lucy Edge. “These unique facilities embrace the new hybrid way in which we all  now engage, while also offering a safe and secure environment to foster UK-wide  space innovation and discussion. Businesses across the UK will now be able to  collaborate across a range of high-tech, high-innovation subjects, to bring  ideas and customers together more effectively,” she adds. “We are delighted to be  able to host a Space Enterprise Lab here at CSA Catapult to support a growing  network of space organizations and academic institutions across the UK,”  comments CSA Catapult’s CEO Martin McHugh. “We hope this innovative new service will encourage more companies to  work collaboratively with us,” he adds. “We have a broad technical offering and  experience in supporting companies developing space applications.” With the addition of SEL Newport, there is now a total of 12 Space  Enterprise Labs across the country, including: 