GeSn VCSE p-i-n diodes bonded on 200mm silicon wafers Researchers based in Singapore, the USA and  China claim the “first demonstration” of 200mm (8-inch) wafer-scale germanium tin (GeSn) multiple-quantum-well (MQW)  vertical-cavity-surface-emitting (VCSE) p-i-n structures and diodes [Qimiao Chen et al, ACS Photonics, published online 8 May  2023]. The team from Singapore’s Nanyang Technological University and National University of Singapore, China’s State Key Laboratory of Superlattices and Microstructures, and Applied Materials Inc in the USA, see the achievements as setting the stage  for “laser or light-emitting diode (LED)  applications in silicon photonics by  wafer bonding and layer transfer  techniques”. The researchers also believe that the  devices could be easily scaled up to production of 300mm (12-inch) wafers,  since the MQW was grown on 300mm silicon (Si) substrates. VCSE lasers (VCSELs)  are widely used as compact size devices  with circular emission profile, low beam divergence, high bandwidth, and high coupling efficiency to fiber-optic cables. Fabrication  is compatible with mass manufacturing using wafer-scale techniques. Further, such devices being fabricated on silicon  potentially opens the way to optoelectronic Nirvana, combining mainstream  complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor (CMOS) electronics and laser light  transmitted by silicon waveguides. But we’re not there yet. Group IV alloys like GeSn have indirect bandgaps  without some serious massaging. Materials with indirect bandgaps generally have  low potential for light emission. In the case of GeSn the narrowest energy gap is between what are called L valleys placed at non-zero quasi-momentum in  the conduction band down to the  heavy-hole band with a peak at zero  quasi-momentum. There are four such L valleys.  The direct Γ valley (zero quasi-momentum) has a larger  energy gap. The photon has effectively  zero momentum, and electron−hole transitions to a photon, requires near zero  change in quasi-momentum. The difference between the gaps can be  altered by (tensile) strain and band-filling. Thermal fluctuations can also  increase the density of electrons in the Γ valley.  Figure 1. (a) Fabrication flow of GeSn/Ge MQW vertical-cavity surface-emitting structures and diodes on Ge-on-insulator (GOI) substrate. (b) Cross-sectional TEM with EDX mapping and (c) EDX line scan. (d) Optical constants from spectral ellipsometry. 