New silicon carbide customer and initial order for Aehr’s FOX-XP multi-wafer test and burn-in Semiconductor production test and reliability  qualification equipment supplier Aehr Test Systems of Fremont, CA, USA has  announced a new silicon carbide customer and initial order for a  FOX-XP multi-wafer test and burn-in system, multiple WaferPak Contactors, a WaferPak  Aligner, and a high-volume production support kit for volume production of  silicon carbide MOSFETs for electric vehicles, trucks and train traction inverter modules. The turnkey system  including the FOX-XP, WaferPak Contactors and WaferPak Aligner is expected to  ship within the next two quarters. In addition, Aehr has also signed a long-term supply agreement  with this new customer covering FOX-XP systems, WaferPaks, WaferPak Aligners,  and support. This new customer is a multinational industrial conglomerate and  manufacturer of semiconductors, including power semiconductors. “After conducting an evaluation of technical and commercial  requirements, this new customer has decided to move very quickly to purchasing  our production FOX-XP solution to accelerate their time to market,”  notes president & CEO Gayn Erickson. “This evaluation included cost of ownership,  customer device module yield improvement,  system capacity and throughput, and device test, burn-in and stabilization  coverage. They see the enormous opportunity in the silicon carbide market, particularly for the  traction inverters used in electric vehicles  including trucks, and in electric commuter trains  where they believe they can provide a superior product of long-term reliability  and useful life. Importantly, these new applications represent new market drivers for our system. This customer is  forecasting to grow their silicon carbide  business significantly, which we believe will drive incremental capacity for  our FOX systems as well as WaferPak Contactor purchases for capacity and new  designs,” he adds. “Our momentum with this newest customer reflects the acceleration  in customer benchmarks and evaluations we are seeing, including shifting from  on-wafer evaluations and moving straight to placing orders for our systems and  WaferPaks,” Erickson continues. “Several companies are describing an even stronger and broader  shift to multi-die modules for the electric vehicle  market, particularly for the main traction inverters  used on each electric engine or drive unit. The reduction in size and cost of  implementing traction inverters using multi-die modules becomes more critical  in achieving cost reductions in electric vehicles  that are smaller and that have multiple drive units  per vehicle. Unlike traditional internal combustion  vehicles with only one engine per vehicle, it is becoming more and more typical  to see electric vehicles that come  standard or have the option of more than one motor or drive unit in them,” he adds. “Wafer-level burn-in is critically important to remove infant  mortality or early failures of devices before they are put into modules, where  the failure of any device would cause the entire module to fail and be  scrapped. A single module for use in large traction inverters such as commuter trains might include up to 10,  12 or even 32 devices. Our FOX-XP wafer-level system can test and burn-in up to  18 wafers at a time and enables contact to 100% of the die in a single  touchdown up to several thousand die per wafer, with 100% confidence of test  burn-in of each device. This is key to companies wanting to put these devices  in electric vehicle applications,  where up to 1% or more of the die would fail in the field if not burned in,” Erickson  says. “In addition, beyond screening out weak devices or early failures  before they are put into a module, there is a need to stabilize the inherent  early life drift of threshold  voltages of devices that is critical to the module reliability. Silicon carbide devices have voltage thresholds,  which is effectively the voltage at which each individual device turns on and  will drift during the first use, or during burn-in stress conditions under  thermal loads. This can cause individual die in a multi-die module to turn on  prematurely relative to the other die in parallel, which can create a  disproportional stress on the die, leading to its early failure. This in turn  will lead to the failure of the entire module. This failure must be screened  out to prevent a ‘walk-home event’ whereupon, with the failure of the traction inverter module, the drive unit will fail, leading to the driver and  all the passengers having to get out of the electric vehicle and walk home.” The FOX-XP system, available with multiple  WaferPak Contactors (full-wafer  test) or multiple DiePak Carriers (singulated die/module  test) configurations, is capable of functional test and burn-in/cycling of  integrated devices such as silicon carbide  power devices, silicon photonics as well as other optical  devices, 2D and 3D sensors, flash memories,  gallium nitride (GaN), magnetic sensors, microcontrollers, and other  leading-edge ICs in either wafer form factor,  before they are assembled into single- or multi-die stacked packages, or in  singulated die or module form factor. 