NUBURU and GE Additive sign joint development agreement NUBURU Inc of Centennial, CO, USA —  which conducts research, development, design and manufacturing of high-power,  high-brightness industrial blue lasers — has signed a joint technology  agreement with metal additive design and manufacturing firm GE Additive  (part of GE) to explore the speed, accuracy and commercial benefits of blue laser-based  metal 3D printing. “As we continue to advance our proprietary blue laser  technology, we have further increased both power and brightness to open up new  applications. We’ve achieved key performance milestones that open new  possibilities for significant advances in metal 3D printing,” says NUBURU’s  CEO & co-founder Dr Mark Zediker. “Working with GE Additive, and  their expertise in metal additive manufacturing, will allow us to rapidly  optimize our innovative area printing approach. That will accelerate the  further expansion of our pioneering blue laser into innovative metal 3D printing  solutions which have the potential to change the landscape of military  logistics; aerospace manufacturing; medical device fabrication, and  beyond,” he adds. “As an industry leader in metal 3D printing and having been  on the leading edge of qualifying parts in regulated industries, we’re excited  to evaluate NUBURU blue industrial laser technology and its benefits,”  says Chris Schuppe, general manager Engineering & Technology  at GE Additive. NUBURU’s approach to additive manufacturing is built on the  foundation of blue light absorption by metals, a fundamental physical  advantage that offers the highest-efficiency laser-based melting for a wide  range of industrially important metals. Combining the blue laser module  with an optical conditioning system, the NUBURU light engine is at the  heart of the expected performance improvements. GE Additive will provide a  powder bed system and expertise in the integration and characterization of  this next-generation prototype light engine, to quantify the performance  improvements over existing technology. The joint development agreement is in addition to an agreement  with GE Additive to support NUBURU’s previously announced AFWERX Small Business  Innovation Research (SBIR) Phase II contract awarded to NUBURU in 2022. 