Aehr appoints Chris Siu as chief financial officer & executive VP of finance Semiconductor production test and reliability  qualification equipment supplier Aehr Test Systems of Fremont, CA, USA has  appointed Chris Siu as chief  financial officer, executive VP of  finance & secretary. He succeeds Ken Spink, who announced his planned  retirement after 15 years with the  firm. To ensure an orderly transition, Spink is staying on through the completion  of Aehr’s fiscal 2023 year (to  end-May) and annual 10-K filing. Siu has more than 27 years  of finance and accounting experience in the semiconductor, medical equipment, and public accounting sectors. Before joining Aehr, he most recently served four years in senior finance executive positions at publicly traded  Ultra Clean Technologies (a  developer and supplier of critical subsystems, components and parts, and  ultra-high-purity clean and analytical services primarily for the semiconductor  and semiconductor equipment industry) including senior VP of finance, corporate treasurer,  and chief accounting officer. Prior to Ultra Clean,  Siu held senior management roles at PDFSolutions and also GlobalFoundries,  where he served for eight years  including leading all global accounting functions as corporate controller for four years. He was also chief accounting officer  and director of finance at Trident Microsystems and served in several senior  finance management positions at medical device  and software manufacturer Varian Medical Systems. Siu also worked for three years  with Deloitte and left as an audit manager, and began his career in public accounting serving over five years with EY. He is a Certified Public  Accountant (inactive) in California. Siu holds a Bachelor of Science degree in  Accounting from Brigham Young  University in Hawaii and a Master of Business Administration degree from the  University of California at Berkeley. “He is a seasoned executive with a proven track record of  delivering strong financial and operating results with several public companies  serving the semiconductor and semiconductor equipment industries,” comments  Aehr’s president & CEO Gayn Erickson. “His wealth of knowledge and  experience will be of great benefit as we continue to focus on the tremendous  growth opportunities ahead for Aehr,” he adds. 