onsemi signs 10-year, $1.9bn deal to supply SiC power devices for Vitesco’s traction inverters and EV drives Vitesco Technologies of Regensburg, Germany (which  develops and manufactures drive technologies and electrification solutions for  electro-mobility) and intelligent power and sensing technology firm onsemi  of Scottsdale, AZ, USA have announced a 10-year long-term supply agreement  worth $1.9bn (€1.75bn) for silicon carbide (SiC) products to enable  Vitesco’s ramp in electrification technologies. Specifically, Vitesco is providing an investment  of $250m (€230m) to onsemi for new equipment for SiC boule growth, wafer  production and epitaxy to secure access to SiC capacity. The equipment will be  used to produce SiC wafers to support Vitesco’s growing SiC demand. In  parallel, onsemi will continue to invest substantially into its end-to-end SiC  supply chain. In addition, the two firms will collaborate on  optimized customer solutions for Vitesco. onsemi’s EliteSiC MOSFETs will be  used by Vitesco to execute the recent orders as well as future projects for  traction inverters and electric vehicle (EV) drives. “Energy-efficient silicon carbide power semiconductors  are at the beginning of a big surge in demand. That is why it is imperative for  us to get access to the complete SiC value chain together with onsemi,” says  Vitesco’s CEO Andreas Wolf. “With this investment we have a secure supply of a  key technology over the next ten years and beyond,” he adds. “This collaboration will enable Vitesco  Technologies to address their customers’ demand for longer range and higher  performance in electric vehicles,” notes onsemi’s president & CEO  Hassane El-Khoury. “onsemi provides superior performance and quality, supply assurance,  and manufacturing at scale of SiC technologies based on decades of experience  in manufacturing power semiconductor products in high-volume automotive  applications,” he claims. Silicon carbide is a pivotal technology for  electrification, enabling highly efficient power electronics leading to  reduced charging times and longer range for electric cars. Especially at high  voltage levels such as 800V, SiC inverters are more efficient than silicon  models. Since 800V is the prerequisite for fast and thus convenient  high-voltage charging, SiC devices are at the beginning of a worldwide boom, it  is reckoned. 