Navitas invests $20m in its first three Aixtron G10-SiC epi reactors Gallium nitride (GaN) power IC and silicon carbide  (SiC) technology firm Navitas Semiconductor of Torrance, CA, USA has announced the  first in a series of strategic manufacturing investments, in order to increase  control, reduce costs and enhance revenue capacity for its GeneSiC silicon carbide power semiconductors. An initial $20m investment enables a  three-reactor SiC epi-growth facility. The first G10-SiC epitaxy reactor from Germany’s Aixtron, with 6” and 8” wafer  capability, is expected to be fully qualified and in production in 2024.  Navitas views the epi-growth services to be provided by its new facility as a  critical process step that could support up to an additional $200m in annual  production. The firm expects to continue the use of third-party vendors for  additional epi-growth, wafer fabrication and assembly operations. “We are proud that an important technology  innovator such as Navitas chose our new G10-SiC to further accelerate the  adoption of SiC in the growing market for energy-efficient power devices,” says Aixtron’s CEO & president Dr Felix Grawert. “This  is especially significant as Aixtron and Navitas are both firm believers and pioneers in the  unstoppable advance of GaN and SiC over legacy silicon,” he adds. “Adding a high-quality SiC epi-layer onto a  raw SiC wafer is a critical process step prior to individual device  manufacturing, and adding the Aixtron in-house epi capability to existing subcontract process flows expands  available capacity, lowers finished wafer cost , increases quality and reduces  cycle times,” says Dan  Kinzer, Navitas’ chief operating officer/chief technology officer (COO/CTO) &  co-founder. “The development and manufacturing business partnership with  Aixtron includes ongoing technical and co-development support.” Navitas’ investment in internal epi capacity  is one of several initiatives in support of its recently announced $760m  customer pipeline of estimated potential future business, based on expressed  customer interest for qualified programs. While the conversion of this pipeline  into orders or shipments depends on many factors in addition to possessing available  capacity, the firm expects that its epi capacity expansion will provide a  favorable return on investment under most anticipated planning scenarios. Navitas recently completed an $80m follow-on offering  of its common stock. It plans to use the proceeds for strategic manufacturing  investments, among other possible uses, including working capital and general  corporate purposes. 