NUBURU delivers first blue laser units to additive manufacturing firm Essentium NUBURU Inc of Centennial, CO, USA — which  conducts research, development, design and manufacturing of high-power,  high-brightness industrial blue lasers — says that multiple units were delivered to industrial additive  manufacturing (AM) firm Essentium. This signifies the initial execution of a  multi-year, multi-million-dollar agreement (jointly announced in May 2022) to develop and manufacture a blue laser-based metal AM  platform. As a result of this technology integration, Essentium expects strong  growth across new applications and markets. Essentium has begun integrating NUBURU’s proprietary blue laser technology with its High Speed Extrusion (HSE) 3D printing technology. The new AM platform  is designed to deliver breakthrough throughput for extremely high part quality and broad-scale use in major  industrial markets, including automotive, aerospace and defense. “We look forward to delivering additional units [to Essentium] over  the course of 2023 and the coming years,” says NUBURU’s CEO & co-founder Dr Mark Zediker. Essentium launched EPOD (Essentium Parts on Demand), an in-house  production service using its HSE 3D printing  technology, in March. The service offers fast and cost-effective production of  parts at scale as well as access to Essentium’s open AM ecosystem of solutions.  NUBURU is supporting Essentium’s growth through partnerships with existing  additive manufacturing service providers and manufacturing marketplaces. “NUBURU’s unparalleled expertise and leadership in blue laser technology have been instrumental  in advancing our cutting-edge 3D printing  platform,” comments Essentium’s chief technology officer  & co-founder Elisa Teipel Ph.D.  “The arrival of the latest units this year and our partnership with NUBURU will  help us continue to drive innovation in the AM industry.” Essentium is also leveraging access to NUBURU’s intellectual property related  blue laser technology, including  patents granted in the USA, Japan, China and South Korea. 