Mojo Vision and DigiLens partner on products for AR glasses Mojo Vision Inc of Saratoga, CA, USA —  which is developing and commercializing micro-LED display technology for  consumer, enterprise and government applications — has partnered with DigiLens Inc (a developer  of head-worn holographic display and waveguide technology) to integrate  its micro-LED technology with DigiLens’ surface relief  gratings (SRG) technology and holographic waveguides for peak optimization. The  partnership aims to accelerate the development of products for the augmented reality (AR)/extended reality (XR) market, combining the  capabilities of each company’s technology. Mojo Vision has already  debuted industry-first technology including the smallest, densest dynamic  display for the first AR smart contact lens. Micro-LED displays are a critical component for powering AR/XR  immersive, experiential products and systems. Mojo says that its  high-performance micro-LED display technology has the capability to deliver the  necessary resolution, performance and efficiency for advanced AR/XR systems,  especially in form factors like  smart glasses. Together, Mojo Vision and DigiLens aim to deliver on  these requirements and enhance DigiLens’ existing products for best-in-class  performance in the near-term, while collaborating to drive commercialization  and adoption of the next generation of AR/XR products in the long term. “Bringing our technologies together will raise the bar on display  performance, and efficiency in the AR/XR industry,” reckons Mojo Vision’s CEO Nikhil Balram. “Partnering  with DigiLens brings AR glasses  closer to mass-scale consumer electronics.  These devices require a single-panel RGB micro-LED display with very small  pixels, high brightness and efficiency, and a holographic waveguide with great  uniformity, large field of view, minimal eye glow in a lightweight, compact form factor,” he adds. “Mojo’s proven micro-LED technology stands out from the  competition, providing the high-resolution, integrated RGB panel solution that enables a form factor small enough for AR smart glasses,” comments DigiLens’ CEO Chris  Pickett. “Combined with DigiLens’ advanced SRG+-based waveguide displays, which  produce best-in-class optical efficiencies and performance, the total form factor of the AR glasses can finally be small and light enough for consumers  to wear for long periods of time and bright enough to allow them to see the  superimposed digital information — even on a sunny day — without needing to  darken the lenses.” 