Innoscience responds to EPC’s lawsuits filed at US ITC and federal courts Innoscience (Zhuhai) Technology Co Ltd  of Suzhou, China says that it  “vigorously responds” to the lawsuit against the firm and its affiliates that was filed by Efficient Power Conversion Corp  (EPC) of El Segundo, CA, USA at the  US International Trade Commission (FTC) and US federal courts, asserting four patents of its foundational patent  portfolio for EPC’s proprietary enhancement-mode  gallium nitride on silicon (eGaN) power semiconductor  devices. The statements in EPC’s legal lawsuit  announcement are “seriously at  odds with the facts,” believes Innoscience. “The motivations and objectives are  doubtful,” it adds. “This action by EPC constitutes illegal  competition tactics aimed at undermining Innoscience’s competitive advantage.  Innoscience reserves the right to pursue legal liability for the losses caused  by this,” the firm says. Innoscience states that its intellectual property rights are  “clear, traceable, and free from infringement”. “Since its establishment,  Innoscience has filed 753 relevant patents globally, with 129 patents granted,”  the firm notes. Regarding the four allegations of intellectual property  infringement raised by EPC, Innoscience has “promptly conducted a thorough  analysis and confirmed that there is no infringement of EPC’s intellectual property rights”. “In comparison to Innoscience, EPC has a significant disparity in  terms of business scale, scope of operations, and technological strength. The  allegations of technology plagiarism, based on the job changes of a few  employees, are purely speculative and lack factual basis,” Innoscience claims.  “Contrary to claims by EPC, they did not serve as chief technology officer and head of sales & marketing,”  it adds. “Innoscience is an IDM (integrated device manufacturer)  semiconductor company with its core competence lying in the full vertical  integration of the semiconductor industry, including chip manufacturing,” the  firm states. “Innoscience is globally recognized for its pioneering 8-inch GaN  mass-manufacturing process. On the other hand, EPC is a fabless design company  whose product designs primarily rely on a 6-inch foundry process platform. EPC  does not possess its own wafer fabrication facilities or corresponding  manufacturing processes,” it adds. Innoscience states that its GaN products span a wide voltage  range, from low (15V) to high (700V), whereas EPC’s product range is limited to  “only a few low-voltage devices, which represents only a small fraction of  Innoscience’s product portfolio”, it claims. Innoscience will “immediately  take all legal measures to counterattack”. The firm has proactively initiated  a response plan to address the investigations and lawsuits, which it claims to  be maliciously filed by EPC. 