CompoundTek and Hyper-silicon collaborate on silicon photonics high-volume wafer edge coupling test for datacom products Singapore-based silicon photonic (SiPh)  foundry services provider CompoundTek Pte Ltd has formed a strategic collaboration with China-based  data-center transceiver provider Ningbo  Hyper-silicon Technology Co Ltd (founded  in 2019) to establish cost-effective high-volume SiPh wafer edge coupling  test. The partnership leverages CompoundTek’s existing wafer test solutions portfolio and aims to  address the growing need for cost-effective testing capabilities with  comprehensive coverage to identify known good dies at the wafer level and eliminate or reduce the need to perform  die-level testing. It also taps into performance testing of the edge coupler, which is conducted in  simulations akin to real-world or end-user applications, enabling SiPh product  companies like Hyper-silicon to have faster yield feedback.  Capturing potential excursions in the fab earlier minimizes the cost of yield  dropouts in the later stages of the packaging process. “We have been working to push the present technical boundaries in  SiPh testing that allow for SiPh mass production  and are excited to work with like-minded customers like Ningbo Hyper-silicon,”  says CompoundTek’s CEO Raj Kumar (founder  & CEO of holding company IGSS Ventures).  “CompoundTek believes technology innovations in cost-effective and efficient test  strategies capable of detecting defective dies or dies that do not meet the  expected performance at the wafer level  are key to wider adoption in the SiPh wafer-level edge coupling test space,” he  adds. “The high growth of demand for our product requires us to test our  SiPh chips in both timely and cost-efficient ways to meet our end customer  demand,” says Ningbo Hyper-silicon’s founder Yang Ming. “A repeatable and  reliable SiPh wafer-level electro-optical testing test platform is critical to achieving this goal. CompoundTek's  edge coupling wafer test solution meets our criteria, leading  to improved quality control for the  manufactured chips and identifying failures in the earlier assembly steps,  allowing us to focus on Hyper-silicon’s core competencies in chip architecture  and design.” Integrating optical with electrical components on a single chip  creates multiple new challenges in wafer-level testing of SiPh devices as large  volumes of optical, electrical and opto-electrical device performance data are  required at various stages of the product development  life cycles, from prototyping to  qualification and subsequently into production. Most companies have homegrown  SiPh bench solutions, typically  sufficient for small-scale engineering characterization during the initial  design verification phase but  inefficient for the high-throughput and low-cost test required for testing from  risk production to the  mass-production phase. Wafer-level edge coupling  gives a higher test coverage than  vertical coupling, traditionally used for coupling the light during wafer  testing. An agnostic SiPh wafer test  service provider with a cost-efficient wafer test  solution is needed to address market gaps, including for the largest SiPh  product companies that have had to cope with modified testers and limited  in-house capabilities, says CompoundTek. CompoundTek has a portfolio of 20 commercial customers and  collaborates with over 20 research institutes and universities in applications  such as telecoms, automotive radar,  datacoms, bio-sensing, artificial intelligence,  quantum computing and smart sensors.  The firm claims to be one of few in the world with a dedicated SiPh water testing cleanroom offering  state-of-the-art testing capabilities through multiple collaborations with  specialized SiPh hardware testing companies. 