Lumentum’s quarterly revenue falls 24.2% sequentially due to customer inventory digestion For its fiscal third-quarter 2023 (ended 1 April), Lumentum Holdings Inc of San Jose,  CA, USA (which designs and makes optical and photonic products for optical networks and lasers for industrial and consumer  markets) has reported revenue of $383.4m, down 24.2% on $506m last quarter  and 3% on $395.4m a year ago, and below the initial $430–460m guidance. “Customers who had built up large inventories due to supply  concerns are bringing down inventories as supply risks and constraints are  easing,” says president & CEO Alan Lowe. “We are currently under-shipping  end-market demand across our business,” he believes. The Commercial Lasers  segment contributed $48.3m (12.6% of total revenue), down 15.6% on $57.2m last  quarter and 5.7% on $51.2m a year ago, due to lower shipments of  fiber lasers and solid-state lasers. However, there was over  70% year-on-year revenue growth for ultrafast lasers, driven by new applications  (particularly in solar cell manufacturing). “We expect that,  as these new laser applications grow, we will gain further share in ultrafast  lasers,” says Lowe. The Optical Communications segment contributed $335.1m (87.4%  of total revenue), down 25.3% on $448.8m last quarter and 2.6% on $344.2m a year ago, due mainly to the inventory  dynamics. Specifically: On a non-GAAP basis, gross margin has fallen  further, from 49.5% a year  ago and 44.9% last quarter to 40.8%,  due mainly to the lower revenue and the product mix. Specifically, Optical communications segment gross margin of  40.8% was down both sequentially and year-on-year, due mainly to lower revenue  and the impact of product margins from NeoPhotonics Corp, a vertically integrated designer and manufacturer of  silicon photonics and hybrid photonic integrated circuit (PIC)-based lasers,  modules and subsystems for high-speed communications (acquired in August 2022). Commercial Lasers segment gross margin of 40.4% was down both  sequentially and year-on-year, due primarily to an inventory reserve resulting  from lower volumes and a fiber-laser product transition (although product margins are expected to recover after shipments  are fully shifted to the new laser platform and manufacturing volumes return). “As we navigate current  demand, we are prioritizing expense controls, accelerated attainment of  acquisition synergies, and cash generation, while we continue to deliver on our  new product and technology roadmaps and customer satisfaction,” says Lowe. Operating  expenses totaled $104.9m (27.4% of revenue), cut by $5.4m from $110.3m  last quarter, as seasonal increases were more than offset by tight expense  controls and synergies. Specifically, selling, general &  administrative (SG&A) expenses were cut from $45.9m to $42.8m, and R&D  expenses from $64.4m to $62.1m. Operating  income has more than halved from $104.9m (operating margin of 26.5% of revenue) a year ago and $116.7m (23.1%  margin) last quarter to $51.4m  (13.4% margin). Net income was $51.8m  ($0.75 per diluted share), down from $104.1m ($1.52 per diluted share) last quarter and $88.9m ($1.19 per diluted share) a year ago. During the quarter,  total cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments fell by $13.2m, from $1680.4m to $1667.2m. For fiscal fourth-quarter 2023, Lumentum  expects revenue to fall further to $350–380m, as Commercial Laser revenue will be roughly flat quarter-to-quarter, while modest growth in the Telecom & Datacom sector will be offset  by a decline in Industrial & Consumer. Further  declines are expected in operating  margin to 8.5–11.5% and in diluted earnings per  share to $0.45–0.65. “While there’s a mixed outlook among our markets and product line,  current visibility indicates that Telecom & Datacom demand will start to  recover from this customer inventory correction late in the second half of the  calendar 2023,” says Lowe. “Our new 25G tunable access module will be a key enabler for  customers upgrading legacy fiber nodes in metro access networks leveraging  next-generation distributed access architecture. However, as we transition  customers from 10G to 25G in the coming quarters, we may see some revenue  lumpiness,” cautions Lowe. “Our advanced ROADMs are key enablers of our  customers’ next-generation network architectures that are just starting to be  deployed, giving us confidence in continued market share growth and future  demand,” he adds. “We expect Commercial Lasers demand to be softer over the next  several quarters due to the macro factors impacting end-market and customer  inventory digestion,” notes Lowe. “To accelerate the integration of NeoPhotonics products into our  global manufacturing footprint and attain synergies without impacting customer  deliveries, we plan to carry elevated inventories for a period of time.  However, we expect inventories to decline by approximately $40m exiting  calendar year 2023 as we continue to focus on cash generation. That is going to  have an impact on overall gross margins, at least in the back half of the  calendar year,” says chief financial officer Wajid Ali. “Also, we expect a  moderation in CapEx spending over the next few quarters.” “Although we expect the overall demand environment is likely to be  challenging in the near term, I’m very confident about Lumentum’s mid- to  long-term prospects, given that fundamental end-market and technology trends  driving our growth expectations are unchanged,” says Lowe. “The adoption of coherent pluggable modules by network operators  is another significant long-term opportunity for us,” says Lowe. “We are highly  vertically integrated across the photonics and electronic components that  enable high-speed pluggable form factors. At OFC or 800G ZR product demo was very well received by our  customers. Cloud data centers are being designed to support  artificial intelligence and machine learning applications, which  bodes well for us as we extend our technology leadership to an even broader  array of products that enable higher capacity and lower power consumption  and latency, as we highlighted at OFC. We are on track with our  200 gig per lane EMLs for 800 gig and 1.6 terabit  per second applications and expect to enter production in the second half  of calendar 2023 and ramp throughout calendar 2024,” he adds. “Our high-speed VCSELs are starting to be deployed for short-reach  connections within data centers, where optical communications are  replacing copper connections due to data speed requirements,” Lowe  continues. “Also, as we highlighted at OFC, Lumentum is uniquely positioned to  develop new photonics solutions, including high-power laser array engines  in coordination with leaders in the high-performance computing market. Given  the fast pace of innovation and the increasing demands placed on photonics  technologies, we expect that the photonics market for AI will rapidly grow,  reaching the size of the existing Ethernet photonics market within the next  five years.” “We expect our fiscal year 2024 3D sensing revenue  will be lower than that of fiscal 2023 due to our expectations around  3D sensing end-market demand, pricing and the possibility of an additional  competitor on a certain socket opportunity in fiscal 2024,” says Lowe. However,  regarding automotive applications: “Recent engagements with a global set of  tier-1 customers gives us confidence in new LiDAR revenue opportunities over  the coming years, as well as our confidence in our ability to significantly  grow our revenue in this market,” he concludes. 