Coherent and Mitsubishi Electric collaborating to scale manufacturing of silicon carbide power electronics Materials, networking and laser technology firm Coherent Corp of  Saxonburg, PA, USA (formerly II-VI Inc before it acquired Coherent  in July 2022) and Tokyo-based Mitsubishi  Electric Corp have signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) to  collaborate on a program to scale manufacturing of silicon carbide (SiC) power electronics on a 200mm technology  platform. The market for  electric vehicles (EVs) is expanding  worldwide and is just one of several emerging applications driving the  exponential growth in SiC power devices,  which have lower energy losses,  higher operating temperatures and  higher switching speeds compared  with silicon-based power devices.  The high efficiency of SiC power devices  is expected to be a significant contributor to global decarbonization and the  green transformation. To meet the  rapidly growing demand, in March Mitsubishi Electric  announced an investment of about 260bn yen in the five-year period to March  2026. Of this, about 100bn yen will be used to construct a new plant for SiC  power devices, based on a 200mm-diameter  wafer technology platform, and to enhance related production facilities. Under  the MOU, Coherent will develop a supply of 200mm n-type 4H-SiC substrates for  Mitsubishi Electric’s future SiC power devices  manufactured at the new facility. “We have a  long track record of supplying SiC substrates to Mitsubishi Electric and are  looking forward to expanding our relationship with them to scale their new  200mm SiC platform,” says Sohail Khan, executive VP,  New Ventures & Wide-Bandgap  Electronics Technologies at Coherent. “Coherent has  been for many years a reliable supplier of high-quality 150mm SiC wafer  substrates to Mitsubishi Electric,” comments Masayoshi Takemi, executive officer, group president Semiconductor & Device, at Mitsubishi  Electric. “We are delighted to enter into this close partnership with Coherent  to scale our respective SiC manufacturing platforms to 200mm.” Coherent says  that (as II-VI Inc) it demonstrated  what was claimed to be the first 200mm conductive SiC substrates in 2015. In  2019, the firm began to supply 200mm SiC substrates under REACTION, a Horizon 2020 four-year program funded by the  European Commission. Over the  years, Mitsubishi Electric has supplied SiC power modules for high-speed  trains, high-voltage industrial applications, and home appliances. The firm  launched the first SiC power modules  for air conditioners in 2010, and  became the first supplier of a full-SiC power module  for Shinkansen high-speed trains in 2015. 