Seoul Semiconductor unveils second-generation LED technology at Display Week At the Society for Information Display  (SID)’s Display Week 2023 in  Los Angeles (23–25 May), South Korean  LED maker Seoul Semiconductor Co Ltd  is unveiling its second-generation LED technologies for future displays,  including WICOP-Pixel-based micro-LED displays and Low Blue Light (LBL) displays that help to  maintain the health of users’ eyes. During this exhibition, Seoul Semiconductor is showcasing  micro-LED displays enabled by its WICOP (Wafer Integrated  Chip on PCB) Pixel technology that is claimed to deliver the  highest level of brightness in the industry. The firm is exhibiting an  ultra-high-definition micro-LED display that offers a brightness of 10,000nits,  breaking the maximum brightness record of 4000nits demonstrated at Integrated Systems Europe (ISE 2023) in Barcelona,  Spain at the beginning of February. WICOP Pixel is claimed to be the first full-color one-chip  technology that does not require wire bonding,  packaging or a lens. It allows three RGB micro-LEDs to be stacked vertically,  not horizontally. This stacking structure not only enables the manufacture of  ultra-small chips and the uniform representation of colors but also the  reproduction of a wide range of black colors — three times better than existing  micro-LED devices. Underpinned by its performance, WICOP Pixel technology offers a  broad range of applicability for future displays, such as virtual production (VP) and automotive  interior/exterior displays, in addition to micro-LED displays. Seoul Semiconductor is also showcasing a Low Blue Light (LBL) display that helps to  maintain the health of users’ eyes. This LED technology, which is designed for  the protection of eye health,  minimizes only the blue wavelengths (415–455nm) that are harmful to the eye by  utilizing Seoul Semiconductor’s unique fluorescent substance technology.  Conventional LBL technologies use a separate filter to block blue light, which entails a major disadvantage  in color distortion, causing the screen to become yellowish. However, Seoul  Semiconductor’s LBL technology reduces harmful blue light without using a filter, allowing viewers to enjoy  clear image quality. “We plan to continue to introduce our second-generation LED  technology for the production of future displays until the end of this year,”  says Michel Zwanenburg, executive VP  of the IT Sales Group at Seoul  Semiconductor. “Through this exhibition, we will make an all-out effort to  secure global customers.” 