Sivers initiates Photonics foundry capacity project and makes management changes Sivers Photonics of Glasgow, Scotland, UK (a business unit of IC and integrated module  supplier Sivers Semiconductors AB of Kista, Sweden) is evaluating how to expand its capacity to meet volumes of more than  1000 wafers per week. To make this  possible Sivers Semiconductors has formed a strategic business development project, hired an advisor, and made changes in Photonics  management. For almost five years, Sivers Photonics has been working with what  are described as very significant customers that are now getting closer to  possible volume production. So far, these customers have spent more than $15m  in development to secure the path to volume production. For Sivers Photonics to reach volume production with  one or several of these customers, it needs to expand capacity and production  capabilities. Sivers Semiconductors has therefore formed a strategic project to  look at a possible new fab site  within the European Union (EU) or the  USA, including strategic partnerships in the Photonics space. Sivers has hired  a new advisor to lead this project, and the current Photonics managing director William McLaughlin will join the  project to capture what Sivers believes is a significant market opportunity. Sivers Photonics’ chief technology officer & co-founder Dr Andrew McKee will assume the role of  interim managing director of Sivers  Photonics. The project will also look at possible funding alternatives  including Chip Act funding that has  been announced by both the EU in the EU Chips Act (involving €43bn to boost chip production within EU) as  well as by the US government with the CHIPS and Science Act (including  $39bn for chip manufacturing on US soil). “With  the first order of approximately 30,000 chips that will be delivered in this  quarter, we are now seeing a clearer path towards volume production,” says  Sivers Semiconductors’ group CEO Anders Storm. “By forming a strategic project, hiring an  advisor, and giving Billy [William McLaughlin] the possibility to focus  on developing capacity and capabilities of the Photonics business unit, we  believe that we have the best possibility to secure the right solution for the  next phase,” he adds. “In addition, Andy McKee will secure the stability and  performance of the existing Photonics business.” 