InAs quantum dot lasers on silicon carbide substrate University of California Santa  Barbara in the USA and King Abdullah University of Science and Technology  in Saudi Arabia have reported enhanced  thermal performance from an indium arsenide  (InAs) quantum dot (QD) laser flip-chip bonded on silicon carbide (SiC), compared with silicon or other  heterogeneous substrates [Rosalyn  Koscica, et al, Optics Letters, v48, p2539, 2023]. The  laser diodes take advantage of the higher 4.9W/cm-K thermal conductivity of SiC  at 300K, relieving thermal accumulation in the devices. Native gallium arsenide (GaAs) has a thermal conductivity of  0.55W/cm-K, and silicon has a thermal conductivity of 1.3W/cm-K. Added interest comes from recent work on  non-linear and quantum photonics on the  SiC platform. The researchers point in particular to work suggesting that  distributed feedback (DFB) could lead to  direct on-chip control over spin-defect quantum bits  (qubits) in SiC-based quantum computers. The team comments: “With an optimized  bonding procedure, the SiC platform will enable integration of III–V light sources with more technology-specific  applications, such as DFB or comb lasers for telecommunications.” The team also points to advantages of enhanced  thermal management for high-power-density optoelectronic systems combining lasers  with high-performance application-specific integrated circuits  (ASICs) consuming up to 200W. Laser performance tends to degrade at high temperature,  with the threshold current increasing and  eventually failing to lase at all. The researchers used molecular beam epitaxy of varying layers of indium aluminium gallium  arsenide (InAlGaAs) on (001) GaAs substrate for the III–V laser material  targeting emissions from the center of the O-band (1260–1360nm), i.e. around  1300nm wavelength (Figure 1).  Figure 1: Device processing steps. (a)  SiC substrate. (b) Substrate etched with vertical channels (VCs) before  bonding, and scanning electron microscopy  top view. (c) III–V laser stack  epitaxially grown on native GaAs bonded  to SiC substrate. (d) Device mesas defined and etched. (e) Cross-sectional  schematic, scanning electron micrograph,  and simulated normalized intensity profile of optical mode. 