EVG and Dymek form joint venture in Malaysia EV Group of St Florian,  Austria – a supplier of wafer bonding  and lithography equipment for semiconductor, micro-electro-mechanical systems  (MEMS) and nanotechnology applications – and Dymek Company Ltd  of Hong Kong, an equipment distributor for the semiconductor, biomedical,  data storage, photovoltaic and aerospace industries, have established a  new joint venture company in Penang, Malaysia. EV Group  Malaysia Dymek Sdn Bhd will be charged with managing EVG’s customer support  operations in Malaysia. Hermann Waltl, executive sales & customer support  director and member of the executive board at EVG, will serve as director of  the new joint venture, and Sean Lim from Dymek will serve as managing  director. Working  closely with EVG’s headquarters, EV Group Malaysia Dymek will be  responsible for numerous key regional customer support activities,  including equipment installation, technical service and support, spare-parts  management and supply, and process development support. The company will  be fully operational in July. “Malaysia has  been an important center for semiconductor and microelectronics packaging, test  and assembly for several decades. As global investments from leading chip  manufacturers and outsourced semiconductor assembly & test companies in the  region continue to ramp up, it is vital that EVG strengthen its customer support  infrastructure here as well,” says Waltl. “Dymek has been a key strategic  partner for EVG in several countries in Asia already for many years, and we  look forward to partnering with them to enhance our customer support in  Malaysia as well,” he adds. “This  strategic move by EV Group to establish a more direct presence in Malaysia will  be well received by the semiconductor and microelectronics industries of  Southeast Asia,” Stanley Lam, managing director Asia Pacific at  Dymek Company. “Companies here already recognize EVG as a market and technology  leader in semiconductor process equipment, and now knowing they can receive  local support from local engineers will only further increase their confidence  and trust in EVG,” he adds. “We are pleased to be working closely with EVG to  grow and enhance their customer support infrastructure in Malaysia and across  Southeast Asia.” EVG is a sponsor  and program speaker at SEMICON Southeast Asia at the Setia SPICE  Convention Centre in Penang (23-25 May).  Attendees interested in learning more about EVG’s latest developments in  heterogeneous integration can attend the Advanced Packaging Forum on 24 May  at 15:00 to see Dr Thorsten Matthias, regional sales director Asia-Pacific  for EVG, present on state-of-the-art and upcoming requirements in  wafer-to-wafer and die-to-wafer hybrid bonding. 