EPC sues Innoscience at ITC for GaN power device patent infringement Efficient Power Conversion Corp  (EPC) of El Segundo, CA, USA has filed  complaints in the US District Court for the Central District of  California and in the US International Trade Commission (ITC) asserting four  patents of its foundational patent portfolio against Innoscience (Zhuhai) Technology Co Ltd and its  affiliates. These patents cover core aspects of the design and manufacturing  process of EPC’s proprietary enhancement-mode gallium nitride power semiconductor  devices. The patents encompass innovations that enabled GaN-based power devices  to mature from a research project to a mass-producible high-volume alternative  to silicon-based transistors and integrated circuits with GaN devices  having higher efficiency, smaller size and lower cost, says EPC. The complaint recounts how Innoscience of Guangdong China,  recruited two EPC employees to serve as its chief technology officer and  head of sales & marketing. Shortly thereafter, Innoscience introduced a suite of products visibly  identical to EPC’s, boasting virtually equal performance across key performance  metrics, says EPC. More recently, Innoscience has  claimed that many of its products have “pin-to-pin compatibility with existing  products”, including EPC’s products, in a bold and aggressive campaign to  market its suite of products to EPC’s customers, the firm adds. “I have always been a believer in fair cooperation as the  foundation of global technology markets,” states EPC’s co-founder & CEO  Alex Lidow PhD. “Only through cooperation can we unlock the potential of GaN  technology and meet the world’s energy security and sustainability goals.  Strong protections and respect for intellectual property are essential to  that trust and cooperation,” he adds. “Through these decisive actions, we will  reach a fair and reasonable resolution that levels the playing field and  ensures a GaN ecosystem that works for all participants in this critical  emerging technology,” he believes. EPC has sued Innoscience in  federal court and the ITC for patent infringement, seeking damages and barring  Innoscience from importing its infringing  suite of GaN products into the USA. EPC claims that, in 2010, it put the first commercial GaN  transistors and integrated circuits into mass production. The firm now  holds 57 US patents and 172 patents worldwide. EPC now has over 100 ICs and  discrete transistors available for off-the-shelf delivery. 