Navitas’ GeneSiC MOSFETs adopted for Exide’s industrial high-frequency chargers Gallium nitride  (GaN) power IC and silicon carbide (SiC) technology firm Navitas  Semiconductor of Torrance, CA, USA says that its GeneSiC power semiconductors  have been adopted by France-based Exide Technologies in order to ensure  reliability, safety, ease-of-use and optimal charging in its high-frequency  fast chargers for industrial  material handling equipment. As a provider of sustainable battery storage solutions for the industrial and  automotive markets, Exide’s range of lead-acid and lithium-ion solutions serve  applications including traction batteries  and charging solutions for material handling  equipment and robotics, maximizing fleet uptime  with minimized total cost of ownership. As a wide-bandgap power semiconductor material, silicon carbide is rapidly replacing silicon  chips in high-power, high-voltage applications such as renewable energy, energy storage and micro-grids, electric vehicles (EVs) and  industrial applications. GeneSiC ‘trench-assisted planar-gate’ SiC MOSFET  technology delivers high-efficiency, high-speed performance, resulting in up to 25°C lower case temperature,  and up to three times longer life than alternative SiC products, Navitas claims. With the highest-published  100%-tested avalanche capability, 30% longer short-circuit withstand time, and  stable threshold voltage for easy  paralleling, GeneSiC MOSFETs are suitable for high-power, fast-time-to-market  applications, the firm adds.  Exide’s high-frequency chargers convert  220V AC power to a battery-level voltage between 24V and 80V for lead-acid- and  lithium-ion-powered industrial vehicles. The 7kW module uses GeneSiC G3R60MT07D  (750V) MOSFETs and GD10MPS12A (1200V) MPS Schottky diodes,  with a frequency-optimized architecture. The same platform can be upgraded to  10kW, with four modules in parallel to provide 40kW of reliable fast-charging  power. “Exide Technologies delivers complete,  carefully controlled fast charging  with close system monitoring for  critical material handling  equipment, running 24/7,” says Dr Dominik  Margraf, director product management  Motion at Exide Technologies. “Navitas’ GeneSiC technology is easy-to-use, with  excellent support, increased system efficiency, and cooler operation,” he  comments. 