QPT’s modules enable GaN to operate at up to 20MHz without overheating or RF issues Founded in 2020, Quantum Power Transformation (QPT) of Cambridge,  UK claims to be the  first company to create the technologies needed to enable GaN to operate at  well over the existing limitations of 100kHz right up to 20MHz in high-power,  high-voltage applications that use hard switching such as motor drive systems for HVAC, robotics etc. The technology opens up  this important section of the GaN market that no-one else currently has  solutions to address, the firm adds. Figure 1: QPT’s founder & CEO Rob Gwynne with  a qGaN module. In high-voltage, high-power applications  there is a practical limit of 100kHz for GaN beyond which the issues of  overheating and RF interference become too great. The existing solution is to  throttle GaN back to under 100kHz, which means that the performance is similar  to silicon carbide and there are no benefits to  using GaN as it is not running at high switching speeds or frequencies where it actually delivers power savings. “Power engineers are  focused on being an expert in one field and have developed skills and design approaches  that work at 10–100kHz switching,  which is where silicon and SiC transistors operate,” notes founder & CEO Rob Gwynne. “I was able to look at the problem as an RF  engineer and create a solution that enables the GaN transistors to be run at  their full potential of up 20MHz with nanosecond switching to deliver better  operational precision without RF interference issues or overheating and thus,  for the first time, deliver their promised efficiencies,” he adds.  Figure 2: Comparison of SiC, GaN and  QPT-controlled GaN. QPT has integrated  its technology into two modules so that it can be easily implemented by  customers with minimal effort and changes to existing designs. The qGaN module  contains a 650V GaN transistor with the company’s qDrive that is claimed  to be the world’s fastest, most accurate, highest-resolution, low-jitter  isolated GaN transistor gate drive. The second module is qSensor, which  combines the firm’s ZEST and qSense technologies, providing the  sensing and control that enables GaN to be driven at super-high frequencies for  the first time. In addition, QPT has  developed its WisperGaN construction system, which includes a reference design for how the modules and the ancillary electronics can be assembled  together in a Faraday cage so that there  are no heating or RF issues. The resulting solution unlocks the ability of GaN  to now operate at ultra-high frequencies and provides up to 80% reduction in  power usage compared with existing solutions that have to operate at much lower  frequencies, it is reckoned. The first qGaN module  (Q650V15A-M01) will handle 15A RMS current driving 380V three phase motors. The  roadmap will have qGaN modules to handle various different power loads to suit different application area requirements. Together with the other QPT technology modules,  turnkey solutions can be easily assembled according to the reference design, the firm says. The reference design is a drop-in replacement for the power stage of existing variable-frequency drives (VFDs) without the need for any specialist expertise in EMC or thermal  cooling. “The rest of the  existing system such as the microprocessor and software stack stay the same. This makes upgrading a genuine plug-and-play  solution with the benefits of needing less power, so it effectively pays for  itself in weeks,” says Gwynne. “In addition, there are further savings as the  new bill of materials (BOM) is less than existing solutions as it does not require  external filters,” he adds. “Companies who want to upgrade from their current  silicon solutions to be more power efficient can leapfrog over the hassle of  developing a SiC solution in-house and simply use our unleashed GaN solution.  Combining the VFD power saving of around 80% with the motor usage gives around 10% reduction in overall power usage, which increases in applications where the motor is frequently at  low speeds where the current solutions are inefficient.” QPT estimates that the  high-voltage, high-power application markets where its new technology can  provide significant power savings has a total addressable  market (TAM) of $365bn. A key segment of that is HVAC and especially heat pumps that are being deployed exponentially around the world, so the TAM  will continue to increase. “Electric motors account for 45% of global electricity usage, and our technology  can make them more efficient and that means less carbon dioxide emissions which helps combat climate changes,” says Gwynne. 