Ayar Labs adds $25m in expansion of $130m Series C funding round Silicon photonics-based chip-to-chip optical  connectivity firm Ayar Labs of Santa Clara, CA, USA has raised an  additional $25m in Series C1 funding, bringing its total Series C raise to  $155m. The oversubscribed up-round was led by new investor Capital TEN.  VentureTech Alliance also entered the Series C expansion that included participation by  previous investors Boardman Bay Capital Management, IAG Capital Partners,  NVIDIA, and Tyche Partners. Past strategic and financial investors include  Applied Ventures,  GlobalFoundries, Hewlett Packard  Pathfinder, Intel Capital  and Lockheed Martin  Ventures. “Future computing solutions will  include large-scale use of silicon photonics  for data communications, and have been following Ayar Labs for some time now,”  comments Pin-Nan Tseng, general partner  at Capital TEN. “Given our  deep expertise in the semiconductor industry and the Taiwan semiconductor  ecosystem, we believe Ayar Labs  has the technology solution, people, capital and broad support to lead in the  transition from copper to optical interconnects for scale-out computing and  memory applications.”  Picture:   Ayar Labs’ TeraPHY optical I/O chiplet  wafer. Photo courtesy of Ayar Labs. Ayar Labs’ patented optical I/O  approach uses industry-standard, cost-effective silicon processing techniques  to replace traditional electrical I/O with fast, high-density, low-power  optical I/O chiplets and  multi-wavelength light sources.  Moving data between chips using light instead of electricity breaks the  performance, power and distance limitations of copper interconnect, critical  for latency-sensitive applications such as high-performance computing,  artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning. Optical I/O will also impact other areas that  require rapid transfer of data, such as cloud and data center, telecommunications, and aerospace and defense. “This C1 adds sophisticated investor  partners that will allow us to accelerate our strategic roadmap, and is further  validation of our technology and plan to bring silicon photonics-based  interconnect solutions to market at scale,” says Ayar Labs’ CEO Charles Wuischpard. Ayar Labs will use the funds to  accelerate the implementation and commercialization of its optical I/O solutions to address the  power consumption, latency,  reach and system bandwidth bottlenecks that threaten future advances in  generative AI, while also expanding the firm’s product offerings and  development efforts. NVIDIA, which participated in Ayar  Labs’ earlier Series C  raise in April 2022, increased its investment in the company. “NVIDIA is  reimagining the data center  with integrated hardware, software and networking for accelerated computing,”  says Craig Thompson, VP of business development  for NVIDIA’s Networking business unit.  “Generative AI models with  trillions of parameters are accelerating demand for this platform, which is why  we are increasing our investment in Ayar Labs.” Recently named one of America’s Best  Startup Employers by  Forbes, the funds will also help the firm to increase its hiring plans by up to  50% this year. Also in recent months, Ayar was recognized as an honoree in Fast Company’s most recent ‘Next Big Things in Tech’ awards. In addition, co-founder, chief  technology officer & senior VP of engineering Mark Wade was  recently appointed to Global Semiconductor Alliance’s CTO Council. Wade was  also recently named to Electro Optics’ inaugural ‘The Photonics 100  2023’ list. 