Luminus releases LUX COB series of LEDs, with 90 and 95 CRI minimum Luminus Devices Inc of Sunnyvale, CA, USA –  which designs and makes LEDs and solid-state technology (SST) light sources  for illumination markets – has  announced the immediate availability of the LUX COB series of LEDs. The new COBs are available with a minimum color-rendering index (CRI) of both 90 and 95 and light-emitting  surface (LES) sizes from 4mm to 22mm in a  variety of flux densities and a full range of correlated color temperatures (CCTs). The 90 CRI  minimum delivers high-quality light with  the lumen/watt efficacy of an 80 CRI  source, enabling luminaire makers to reduce SKUs by eliminating the need for 80 CRI products. Both the 90 and 95 CRI  minimum versions use narrow-band red phosphor  (current KSF) technology to deliver what is claimed to be outstanding  performance and quality of light for a variety of lighting applications  including retail, residential, hospitality, architectural, museum, downlights,  track lights and spotlights.  “The LUX COB series is an exciting addition to the Luminus COB  portfolio as they are available in not only 90 CRI minimum but we went a step further to  offer an optional 97 CRI typical, 95 CRI min, with efficacy similar to what our  competitors’ 80 CRI COBs have been  delivering in recent years,” says COB product line  director Dave Davito. “For example, the LUX 95 CRI min CLM-22 provides 157 lumens/W and the 90 CRI version reaches an amazing 176 lumens/W,” he adds. “Luminaire makers who  received prototype samples have already been loading orders on us faster than  any new product in our 10-year COB history.” Luminus says that lighting designers are specifying it in projects  where their end-users are most discerning and demanding, such as retail lighting, museums, hospitality and  high-end residential. The launch of the LUX COB series further solidifies  Luminus’ position without having to sacrifice efficacy. European customers in  particular are planning to leverage the LUX COBs to help their end-customers  qualify for energy-efficiency rebates, which require the entire fixture system (including optics and drivers) to  achieve 120 lumens/W. 