UK unveils National Semiconductor Strategy, with £1bn government funding The UK government has unveiled its long-awaited National  Semiconductor Strategy, which aims to boost the UK’s semiconductor industry’s  strengths and skills (focusing on design, intellectual property, R&D  and compound semiconductors) while safeguarding supply chains from  disruption and protecting the technology sector against national security  risks. Working in tandem with industry, the government investment aims to  drive research, innovation and commercialization through the sector — helping  to deliver products from lab to market. With semiconductors underpinning future technologies, such as  artificial intelligence (AI), quantum and 6G, the strategy focuses on  particular areas deemed to be of strategic advantage to the UK in the  semiconductors sector — design, compound semiconductors, and the R&D  ecosystem — supported by UK universities from Cambridge to Cardiff and  Manchester to Edinburgh. Used in evolving technologies such as autonomous driving and  future telecoms, the creation of compound semiconductors in particular  requires expertise in advanced materials, a focus of UK science. To support the growth of the sector in the UK, the government will  invest up to £200m over 2023–2025 to improve industry access to infrastructure,  power more R&D and facilitate greater international cooperation. Taking a strategic approach to investment over the next decade,  the government will invest up to £1bn in a range of measures targeted at  securing what are perceived to be the UK’s advantage and meeting three key  objectives: The new funding will be used to improve the talent pipeline and  will make it easier for British firms to access things like prototyping, tools  and business support. These efforts will include investment in a new National  Semiconductor Infrastructure Initiative to unlock the potential of British chip  firms in these key areas. It will look at whether better access to prototyping  facilities for chip firms is needed to tackle barriers to innovation and grow the  industry. It will also explore opportunities to make specialist software tools  more available for start-ups. The Department for Science, Innovation and  Technology commissioned research that will look at the best way to establish  the Infrastructure initiative. This will report its findings in the autumn. Furthermore, the government will announce plans by the autumn on  support for investment in the semiconductor manufacturing sector, particularly  where they are critical to the UK tech ecosystem or national security. Taking a semiconductor chip from lab to market can involve  thousands of production stages taking place across the world, with various  locations that have particularly concentrated production capabilities. The  surge in demand for consumer electronics during the pandemic demonstrated how  global industries can be impacted by semiconductor supply issues. This strategy  highlights the importance of collaboration with international allies to develop  secure supply chain resilience. The UK government says it will take steps to help sectors mitigate  the impact of supply shortages in the future. It also wants to protect critical  sectors (essential services, healthcare, critical national infrastructure and  defence) from disruptions that could cause risks to life, or national security.  To help ensure that the UK is better protected against future disruption the  government commits to: The UK’s Integrated Review placed securing strategic advantage in  science and technology at the heart of the UK’s national security and foreign  policy. In recognition of the fundamental importance of semiconductor  technologies in these areas, as part of the National  Semiconductor Strategy the UK will increase its cooperation with close  partners, working together to manage national security threats and driving  growth in the sector, while championing international cooperation to help  develop a coordinated approach to supply chain resilience. Announcement of the plan follows a UK and Japan commitment to  establish collaboration in the semiconductor sector, spanning R&D  cooperation, skills exchanges, and improving the resilience of the  semiconductor supply chain. Meanwhile, UK Prime Minister Rishi Sunak  is attending the G7 leaders’ Summit in Hiroshima, Japan for discussions on  strengthening tech collaboration with “like-minded economies” and strengthening  supply chains for critical technology like semiconductors. In Hiroshima, the UK and Japan committed to establishing a  semiconductor partnership — led by the UK’s Department for Science, Innovation  and Technology (DSIT) and Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry  (METI) — that seeks to deliver new R&D cooperation, skills exchanges, and  improving the resilience of the semiconductor supply chain for both  countries. UK Research and Innovation will work with the Japan Science and  Technology Agency on a joint investment of up to £2m in early-stage  semiconductor research next year that will support UK and Japanese researchers  to work together on fundamental semiconductor technologies. Semiconductors can create vulnerabilities in the electronic  devices they are used in, and these risks are becoming more significant as the  use of Internet-connected devices increases. A compromise to the cyber-security  of hardware is not acceptable. The acquisition of chip firms can also present  national security issues. The strategy announces actions to protect the UK  against these security risks including: The UK government says that its strategy has been developed in  close consultation with the semiconductor industry and academia, and it will  build on this partnership by creating: 