CSA Catapult and Cardiff University showcase high-performing GaN power amplifier for satcoms A high-performing  gallium nitride (GaN) power amplifier for use in  satellite communication applications has been developed by a collaboration  including a team of engineers at the Compound Semiconductor Applications  (CSA) Catapult and Cardiff University in South Wales. Presenting their results at the European Space Agency’s ‘1st Space  Microwave Week’ conference (8–12 May), the team says that the GaN  power amplifier has performed extremely well on new state-of-the-art  linearity tests developed by CSA Catapult to help test the technology  before it makes its way into real-world applications. When designing satellite communication systems, one of the most  critical factors is the linearity of the power amplifier. A linear power amplifier  preserves the information content and quality of the signal and reduces the interference  with other signals in the same frequency band. This is crucial to reduce  distortion and ensure that the signal’s information can be transmitted over the  air and accurately recovered by a receiver. The CSA Catapult team say this is an important step towards  developing GaN power amplifiers for broadband satellite communication  applications that are data-intensive, such as video streaming and the Internet of Things  (IoT), as well as integration with the 5G mobile communication system and a  pathway beyond 5G. By using compound semiconductors such as GaN instead of  silicon to fabricate a power amplifier, more energy-efficient systems can  be built, and hardware size and weight can be reduced. However, engineers are continuously wrestling with the challenge  of creating an efficient and linear power amplifier, with the two factors  often conflicting. Being able to test the linearity of GaN power amplifiers with real  data signals is therefore of upmost importance and is what led CSA Catapult  and Cardiff University to develop a testbed that can carry out these  measurements automatically. CSA Catapult tested and characterized a GaN satellite  communication power amplifier operating in the 26–31GHz  band with an output power greater than 6W. “With the increasing demand for high-speed and reliable  communication, satellite communication systems are becoming more advanced and  sophisticated,” notes Ehsan Azad, an RF engineer at CSA Catapult who led the  research and presented it at the ESA conference. “As these systems continuously  evolve through increased bandwidths and more complex signals being transmitted,  it becomes more challenging to maintain linearity specifications whilst  continuing to focus on efficiency improvements,” he adds. “As we move toward the  more energy-efficient power amplifier architectures, alongside the use of  relatively new GaN technology, a lot of the assumptions made on power amplifier  linearity are being invalidated. Similarly, there are still concerns about the  linearity of the GaN-based power amplifier. That is why it is critically  important that state-of-the-art tests such as ours are developed to determine  the suitably of compound semiconductor materials for building the next  generation of satellite communication applications.” 