NS Nanotech reports record performance of red nano-LED NS Nanotech Inc of Ann Arbor, MI,  USA has reported record  performance for its nano-LED technology, demonstrating the first  submicron-scale red LED efficient  enough for commercial applications. The red nano-LED, with external quantum efficiency (EQE) greater than 8% was  fabricated in the University of Michigan laboratory directed by NS Nanotech co-founder professor Zetian Mi. The LED is based on patented technology enabling fabrication of  components that will be smaller and draw far less power than existing LED  solutions, it is reckoned, while emitting brighter, more saturated, more stable  and more directional light. NS Nanotech,  which has exclusive licenses to LED technologies developed by Mi’s research  teams, is working to enable commercial manufacturing of the nano-LEDs.  Picture:   GaN nano-LEDs less than a micron in diameter (left) can be tuned  to emit various wavelengths (right). The results of the demonstration and description of methods used  to grow red-emitting gallium nitride  (GaN) nanowire crystals were published by Mi’s team in Applied Physics Letters (Ayush Pandey et al, ‘A red-emitting micrometer scale LED with  external quantum efficiency >8%’, Appl. Phys. Lett. 122, 151103 (2023)). “Our nano-LED performance breakthroughs have the potential to  disrupt important emerging markets, especially for augmented reality and virtual reality headset displays,” says NS Nanotech’s CEO & co-founder Dr Seth Coe-Sullivan. “AR/VR eyeglasses will  require easily manufactured high-performance nano-LEDs that are orders of  magnitude smaller than current LEDs, and we are on a straightforward  development path to get there over the next several years.” Based on exclusively licensed patent portfolios from McGill  University and the University of Michigan, NS Nanotech’s  technology is said to introduce new methods for growing nano-LEDs and their  resulting structures. The firm intends to bring costs below the threshold  required for integration of nano-LEDs into micro-displays and countless other  end-products, with breakthroughs in cost and efficiency delivering performance  equivalent to chips that today are ten times the size or more. In addition to red nano-LEDs, NS Nanotech  says that it has demonstrated how its technologies have the potential to close  the ‘green gap’ in efficiency that  currently limits the effectiveness of green LEDs for many applications. In an  article published in Nanoletters, Mi’s group described successful fabrication  of a submicron-scale green nano-LED with EQE greater than 25%, a new record (Ayush  Pandey et al, ‘An Ultrahigh Efficiency Excitonic Micro-LED’,  Nano Lett. 2023, 23, 5, 1680). NS Nanotech says that  its nano-LED technology also has the potential to deliver invisible ultraviolet-spectrum  UVC light that has been proven effective in water and air purification and  sterilization of medical equipment. By delivering UVC LEDs featuring the same breakthroughs in cost and  performance that it delivers for multi-color micro-displays, the firm will be  positioned to enable new classes of anti-viral and anti-microbial purification  solutions. “UVC light effectively deactivates numerous pathogens, including  those causing viral airborne diseases such as COVID-19 and influenza,”  Coe-Sullivan says. “Building low-cost, high-performance UVC light emitters into  the world’s public and private buildings, transportation systems, schools,  homes and other infrastructure where people gather will have the potential to  dramatically reduce or avoid future epidemics and pandemics.” 