Delay to UK’s Semiconductor Strategy deterring tech firms’ investment, warns Wales’ Economy Minister Technology  companies looking to invest in Wales are being put off from doing so by the UK  Government’s continued delay in publishing a Semiconductor Strategy, warns  the Welsh  Government’s Economy Minister Vaughan Gething. With the  support of both the Welsh and UK Governments, South Wales has developed a  cluster of activity specializing in compound semiconductors, one of the  UK’s key strengths in microelectronics. In a letter to  the interim Secretary of State for Science, Innovation and Technology Chloe  Smith MP, the Minister said the Welsh Government is in active dialogue  with several companies with interest in investing further in Wales to develop  or grow a presence in the semiconductor cluster and build on the existing  business and academic ecosystem. However, the absence of a UK strategy for the  sector, particularly when compared with the significant plans set out in the  USA and the European Union (EU), is increasingly a problem. As a result,  the Welsh Government is seeing investment plans paused, with the lack of a UK  strategy being cited as a key factor. “The semiconductor sector requires long-term investment. Companies, and  indeed the Welsh Government, need to understand the UK commitment to this  industry at the earliest opportunity. If not, investment decisions will be made  elsewhere,” said Gething. “I would hope the strategy contains a significant investment commitment  by the UK Government that will be proportionate to the commitments being made  in the US and EU. In investing in the UK’s strengths, I would wish to see  compound semiconductors recognized as a priority for  investment, and Wales’ cluster confirmed as a destination for that investment,”  he added. “The strategy will, I expect, commit to developing our R&D and  skills for the sector, but it should also commit to building the infrastructure  that enables the industry to grow and develop. It is crucial that the strategy  sets out how the UK can support companies in a way that prevents the leakage of  activity overseas.” Gething also  drew the Secretary of State’s attention to the situation at Nexperia/Newport Waferfab  in Newport, South Wales. As a result of a Security and Investment Order,  the future of that plant (one of the largest wafer fabs left in the UK) is  uncertain. “The Semiconductor Strategy needs to offer sufficient confidence to the  industry, the Welsh Government and local government —  who all have a decision-making role in securing the sector’s future — in a way that is supported by  clarity from the UK Government on relevant security matters,” said Gething. “The industry is facing real volatility, and the absence of a strategy  aggravates the particular uncertainty the workforce in Newport faces and our  ability to secure the jobs and skills that are essential to a strong cluster in  the long term,” he added. “At no point has the Welsh Government sought to interfere with security  matters in these areas. We have been clear throughout this process that those  decisions are rightly matters for UK Ministers. However, urgent progress is now  required to ensure prospective investors can take on this key site, preserve  hundreds of high-value jobs, and protect the capability the plant offers to the  sector in the UK.” Gething has called for a meeting with the Secretary of State to  discuss the planned next steps for the sector, so that Ministers from both  governments are able to design a more collaborative and strategic approach that  maximizes the contribution of a sector that is crucial to boosting economic  growth, reducing costs and protecting the interests of businesses and  communities across the UK. 