Sparrow Quantum raises €4.1m in seed funding Sparrow Quantum Aps of Copenhagen,  Denmark has secured DKK31m (€4.1m) in a seed funding round led by London-based venture capital  firm 2xN joined by LIFTT and the European Innovation Council (EIC). Sparrow Quantum targets light-matter  interfaces for quantum technologies by bringing foundational quantum photonic  components to market. Deterministic light-matter interfaces have widespread  applications in quantum technology; they constitute foundational hardware  allowing fully secure quantum communication, a quantum internet for wiring up  the world with quantum entanglement, or a scalable quantum computer based on  photons. Based on  indium arsenide/gallium arsenide (InAs/GaAs) quantum dot  structures embedded in photonic crystal waveguides emitting at wavelengths  of 920–980nm, Sparrow’s first product is an on-chip (3mmx3mm) single-photon  source that provides long strings of more than 100 single photons without  deteriorating quality and at a rate of more than 20 million  single photons per second in fiber that can be directly deployed for,  for example, multi-photon quantum simulations or quantum key  distribution experiments. Offering what is claimed to be record efficiency and  photon indistinguishability, Sparrow’s single-photon sources are expected to  promote new avenues for research and enable photonic quantum technology  researchers to conduct their experiments more efficiently and cost-effectively.  Furthermore, Sparrow plans to become a trusted component provider in the  quantum industry supply chain by teaming up with developers of quantum  technology systems to incorporate its single-photon sources into large-scale  commercial quantum systems. Sparrow’s technology results from over two  decades of research by founder professor Peter Lodahl and his quantum photonics  research group at the Niels Bohr Institute (NBI) in Copenhagen. Lodahl was  the first to demonstrate that light emission can be fully controlled using  intricate photonic nanostructures. He currently heads the Hybrid Quantum Networks  Hy-Q Center of Excellence, which is developing new quantum hardware for  quantum-information science, such as deterministic single-photon sources,  spin-photon interfaces, and photonic quantum gates. With this seed investment, Sparrow Quantum  aims to accelerate the development of its products and services, expand its team,  and strengthen its position in quantum light-matter interfaces and  next-generation single-photon sources for commercial quantum technologies. “Thanks to this  investment, we can continue to develop our single-photon source and accelerate  its market entry,” says Lodahl. “Moreover, we can start executing our  roadmap of how to make our foundational technology the chosen approach in  advanced quantum systems  applications within quantum communication and quantum computing.” “This funding will  allow us to advance our development of light-matter interfaces for commercial  quantum technologies and bring our next-generation products to market faster,”  says Sparrow’s CEO Kurt  Stokbro. 