Porotech unveils first monolithic full-color micro-LED displays Porotech (a spin off from the Cambridge Centre  for Gallium Nitride at the UK’s University of Cambridge that has  developed porous GaN material) has announced what it says is the first  single-panel, full-color micro-display suitable for augmented reality (AR)  applications. The micro-display is based on Porotech’s Dynamic Pixel Tuning  (DPT) technology, where DPT micro-LED pixels can emit any visible color when  driven with a specific current density. Porotech is unveiling the 0.26-inch  monolithic full-color micro-display, along with an AR development platform,  during SID Display Week 2023 in Los Angeles (21-26 May). Picture:  The first single-panel, full-color  micro-display suitable for AR applications, based on Porotech’s Dynamic Pixel  Tuning technology. Having already demonstrated how a DPT pixel can create a full  range of visible colors, Porotech is now unveiling the new active-matrix  0.26-inch micro-LED display offering 1280x720 resolution, which utilizes a  proprietary driving method developed by Porotech that rapidly displays  red, green and blue light to enable a full-color RGB display and richly  saturated colors. Based on existing backplane technology, the 3.5µm micro-LEDs are fabricated on a 4.5µm pixel pitch. Porotech says that its  micro-LEDs emitter size can be larger while keeping the resolution because  subpixels are no longer required. With DPT technology, full color native  micro-LED displays can now be unlocked with a single LED epitaxial growth and a  one-step wafer-to-wafer bonding to the CMOS backplane. This removes complex and  low-yield manufacturing barriers inherent with alternative approaches, the firm  adds. Micro-LEDs are claimed to represent the leading viable solution  for the future of displays in AR glasses, offering benefits such as improved  brightness, energy efficiency, contrast ratio, longer device lifetimes,  reduced display size, along with greater pixel densities and  resolutions. Many AR developers have been searching and waiting for a  single-panel full-color solution with high pixel density and minimum form factor. “This new single-panel full-color micro-display marks a  significant milestone for Porotech and the entire micro-LED industry, as only  DPT pixels can meet the specification, performance, reliability and cost  required for AR glasses,” reckons Porotech founder & CEO Tongtong Zhu. “Also, Porotech's DPT technology opens the  market for additional display applications using micro-LEDs beyond AR/VR  including smart watches, smart phones, tablets, flat-panel TVs  to large panel displays for commercial outdoor signage,” he adds. “We welcome  potential partners and customers to co-develop and design monolithic full color  micro-display panels, projectors and light engines for next-generation AR glasses  or any other display applications that can leverage Porotech's DPT technology.” 