IQE proposes £30m placing and £3m retail offer and extends $35m revolving credit facility Epiwafer and substrate  maker IQE plc of Cardiff, Wales, UK has announced a proposed fundraise of  about £30m through the issue of new ordinary shares to institutional investors  and certain directors of the company, at a price of 20 pence per ordinary share.  The firm also intends to conduct a retail offer, open to existing retail  investors, of up to £3m in total (the ‘REX  retail offer’), at the issue price. The placing is being  conducted via an accelerated bookbuild process that is expected to close no  later than 7am (London time) on 18 May, but may be closed earlier or  later at the absolute discretion of joint bookrunners Peel Hunt LLP  and Numis Securities Ltd. Applications will be made  to the London Stock Exchange for admission of the new ordinary shares  to be issued to trading on AIM at 8am on 22 May (pursuant to the placing)  and on 23 May (pursuant to the REX retail offer) respectively. As highlighted in the  trading update on 9 March, the semiconductor industry is experiencing a  temporary downturn as a result of heightened inventory levels that built up  during the pandemic, coupled with softer consumer demand. This has resulted in  a reduction in orders and forecasts from IQE’s customers. Against this backdrop, the  firm is proposing to raise £30m via the placing and up to £3m via the REX retail  offer in order to ensure that the firm can continue to invest to execute on its  strategy, meet its near-term liquidity requirements and deliver a sustainable  balance sheet position going forward. IQE has entered into an agreement  with its lending bank HSBC to extend the term of its $35m revolving credit facility (RCF)  from April  2024 to  May 2026, conditional on completion of the placing, ensuring sufficient  headroom in the event that the macroeconomic headwinds persist through  second-half 2023. In light of the challenging  market conditions, IQE has implemented several cost control and cash  preservation measures, including a 10% reduction in labour costs for fiscal year  2023 and minimization of property, plant & equipment (PP&E) capital expenditure. In total,  overheads are forecast to reduce by 7% year-on-year in 2023. IQE has also prioritized  growth CapEx on investment in gallium nitride (GaN) manufacturing  capacity. This will enable the firm to diversify into the high-growth markets  of power electronics devices (which has a five-year CAGR of 50%) and  micro-LED display devices (which has a five-year CAGR of 150%+). This investment in GaN  manufacturing capabilities is reckoned to represent a significant opportunity  to gain scale in power electronics, through the purchase of four Aixtron G5+  GaN metal-organic  chemical vapor deposition (MOCVD) reactors. The first two of these will be  installed at IQE’s existing facility in Massachusetts, and the second two in  either the USA or the UK. The new reactors will be  deployed on customer-funded R&D programs initially and will provide  incremental margin improvement, diversify the product portfolio, build the  resilience of the firm, and reduce customer concentration. IQE has secured  preferential delivery and payment terms to stagger this investment across  fiscal 2023–2025. The return on the  investment is expected to be incremental to margins and consistent with IQE’s  target EBITDA (earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and  amortization) margin  of >30% set out at the Capital Markets Day in 2022. IQE says that it has a  strong pipeline of strategic and long-term partnerships and new business  opportunities that will underpin growth in second-half 2023 and beyond. Despite  the current cyclical downturn, the semiconductor industry has consistently  demonstrated growth over many decades and the fundraising is expected to ensure  that the firm remains well positioned to capitalize on the significant  opportunities ahead. In its unaudited preliminary  results, IQE has reported annual revenue growth of 9% from £154.1m in 2021 to  £167.5m for 2022, or £151.2m on a constant-currency basis. Impairment of goodwill was  £62.7m, relating to the firm’s wireless operating segment, where reductions in  sales volumes — linked principally to lower levels  of smartphone-related demand and continuing weakness in 5G infrastructure —  is forecast to result in lower levels of capacity utilization  and operating segment profitability. The non-cash impairment results from the  near-term softness in forecasts for wireless products as a result of the  industry-wide semiconductor downturn, driven by inventory build-up throughout  the supply chain. Due primarily to the  non-cash impairment of goodwill of £62.7m, operating loss has risen from £20m  to £73m. However, adjusted operating loss (excluding the impairment) has been cut  from £6.5m to £3.6m. Net cash flow from  operations has more than halved from £18.9m to £8.9m, reflecting cash generated  through IQE’s resilient trading performance offset by adverse working capital  movements and the cash impact of adjusted non-operational items. Adjusted net debt (excluding lease  liabilities) rose from £5.8m to £15.2m during 2022. By end-March, net debt was  £24m. IQE says that current  trading is affected by the temporary semiconductor industry downturn, with  reduced customer forecasts, orders and associated revenue. First-half 2023 revenue is  expected to be £50–56m (down on first-half 2022’s £86.2m). However, full-year 2023 revenue should  be in line with management expectations set out in March, which include a  return to year-on-year growth during second-half 2023. Diversification into the high-growth markets  of power electronics  and micro-LED displays targets GaN growth  opportunities in 2024 and beyond. IQE expects PP&E CapEx related to essential  maintenance and health & safety items and existing commitments to be about  £7.4m in full-year 2023. In addition, the diversification strategy will lead to  investment in GaN of about £8.3m. “Our  industry is currently experiencing a downturn cycle but it has demonstrated  consistent growth over many decades, which is forecasted to continue,” says CEO  Americo Lemos. “As macro technology trends drive an increased need  for compound semiconductors,  IQE is strategically positioned to serve the global market and underpin the  next wave of innovation,” he adds. “This fundraise enables our investment in  new growth markets including power electronics and micro-LED display, in line with our strategy. As a  result, we are well-placed to capitalise on our excellent pipeline and global  footprint as we emerge from the current cycle.” 