POET cuts losses in Q1 For first-quarter 2023, POET  Technologies Inc of Toronto,  Ontario, Canada — designer and developer of the POET Optical Interposer, photonic integrated circuits (PICs) and light sources for the data-center,  telecom and artificial intelligence  (AI) markets — has reported non-recurring engineering revenue (NRE)  of $181,000 (compared with $200,000 last  quarter but nil a year ago). This comprised services provided to multiple  customers (one of which continued to contract services from last year) relating  to unique projects that are being addressed utilizing the capabilities of the  POET Optical Interposer. Net loss has been cut back from $6.3m ($0.17 per share) last  quarter to $5.3m ($0.14 per share). This included R&D costs of $2.3m, cut  from $2.7m. Cash outflow from operating activities was –$4.4m,  up from–$2.7m last quarter. However, since 1 January, the firm has  received $7.4m from the exercise of warrants by insiders and warrant holders. During the quarter,  POET: “We’ve made significant progress on our commercialization roadmap  with the recent purchase orders from world-class customers as well as our  introduction of important new products,” says chairman & CEO Dr Suresh  Venkatesan. “Our work with leading companies like Celestial AI and Beijing  FeiYunYi Technology further validate the commercial viability of our optical engines  and other optical interposer-based products,” he adds. “POET’s Infinity  optical chiplet solution received wide praise when demonstrated as part of a  highly integrated 800G transceiver module at the OFC 2023 conference in  March. Additionally, we announced our POET Starlight products, which are  packaged light engines based on our LightBar platform and an ideal  solution for AI applications. The creation of this product, while significant,  was a seamless modification of the POET Optical Interposer, underscoring  the flexibility of our core technology and its relevance across a wide spectrum  of data communications applications.” 