Penn State and onsemi sign MOU for $8m collaboration on silicon carbide growth Power semiconductor IC supplier onsemi of  Phoenix, AZ, USA has signed a  memorandum of understanding (MOU) for an $8m strategic collaboration that  includes the establishment of the onsemi Silicon Carbide Crystal Center  (SiC3) at Penn State University’s Materials Research Institute (MRI).  onsemi will fund SiC3 with $800,000 per year over the next 10 years. In addition to conducting SiC research at SiC3, Penn State  and onsemi aim to raise awareness about the increasing demand for tech jobs in  the semiconductor industry as part of their efforts to enhance the USA’s share  of global semiconductor manufacturing. They will also partner on workforce  development initiatives such as internship and cooperative programs and include  SiC and wide-bandgap crystal studies in Penn State’s curriculum. The  relationship with Penn State is part of onsemi’s commitment to promoting  STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts and Mathematics) education,  ranging from helping K-12 students in underserved communities to university  collaborations that support the development of the workforce. “onsemi is a proven innovator, delivering a comprehensive  portfolio of intelligent power and sensing technologies to enable and  accelerate sustainable solutions across multiple markets,” comments Lora Weiss,  Penn State senior VP of research. “At the same time, as per the  National Science Foundation’s research expenditure rankings, Penn State is  ranked first in materials science and second in materials engineering. We  have world-class nanofab and characterization facilities that support research  on thin films, silicon carbide and other materials used in  semiconductors and other technologies. These complementary capabilities between  onsemi and Penn State will have a strong impact on research and  development, economic growth, and workforce development,” she believes.  Picture: Catherine Côté, VP &  chief of staff to onsemi’s CEO, and Penn State executive VP & provost Justin  Schwartz, after signing the MOU. “Penn State is uniquely positioned to rapidly establish a silicon carbide  crystal growth research program,” comments Pavel Freundlich, chief  technology officer of onsemi’s Power Solutions Group. “The university  offers a wide breadth of capability based on its current materials research,  wafer processing capabilities in its nanofab facility, and a comprehensive,  world-class suite of metrology instrumentation,” he adds. “Over the next decade, this collaboration will enable Penn State  to become the nation’s leading resource for semiconductor crystal science and  workforce development,” believes Justin Schwartz, Penn State executive VP  & provost. “This would not be possible without the relationship-building  efforts of Priya Baboo, senior director of corporate and industry engagement,  and the technical expertise of Joshua Robinson, professor of materials science  and engineering, and their counterparts at onsemi,” he adds. “Penn State’s expansion of its curriculum to offer specialty  courses in SiC and wide-bandgap technology will play a key role in meeting  onsemi’s strategic workforce development goals and help to meet American  semiconductor workforce goals as outlined in the recently signed CHIPS and  Science Act,” concludes Scott Allen, vice president, University Relations,  at onsemi. 