Sineng using onsemi’s EliteSiC MOSFETs and IGBT-based power integrated modules Power semiconductor IC supplier onsemi of  Phoenix, AZ, USA says that its EliteSiC silicon carbide (SiC) MOSFETs and  IGBT-based high-density power integrated modules (PIMs) will be integrated into  the utility-scale solar inverter and industry-first 200kW energy storage  system (ESS) of China-based Sineng Electric. The two firms worked together to  develop optimized solutions that maximize the performance of solar inverters,  energy storage and power conversion systems. Sineng’s work with onsemi EliteSiC has led to the  launch of a utility-scale solar string inverter, which is said to offer  simplicity in design, reduced maintenance costs and lower downtime compared  with a centralized inverter solution. The adoption of onsemi’s highly optimized  single-stage PIM with multi-level topology in 200KW ESS enables what is claimed  to be industry-leading system efficiency and lower total cost of ownership. “onsemi supports us in solving the most  challenging technical problems such as system-level design, simulations,  thermal analysis and creation of sophisticated control algorithms,” says Sineng  Electric’s chairman Qiang Wu. “Integrating the highly efficient EliteSiC  technology enables us to develop and implement cutting-edge renewable energy  solutions tailored to our customers’ needs. In combination with onsemi’s end-to-end  SiC supply chain, we have the supply assurance to plan for long-term  growth.” Both firms will continue to collaborate on the  development of new high-power products to enable a broader range of renewable energy  solutions. As part of this, Sineng will adopt more EliteSiC products,  benefitting from efficiency and scale. “Together, we will leverage the benefits of  onsemi’s high-performance products and Sineng Electric’s expertise in power electronics  system design to deliver industry-leading solutions for sustainable energy  applications,” says Asif Jakwani, senior VP & general manager of onsemi’s  Advanced Power Division. The two firms expect to extend their existing  long-term supply agreement (LTSA), signed in late 2022, further demonstrating  their commitment to collaboration and innovation. 