onsemi and Kempower enter strategic agreement for EV chargers As part of a new strategic agreement, power semiconductor IC supplier onsemi  of Phoenix, AZ, USA is to provide its EliteSiC MOSFETs and diodes for scalable  electric vehicle (EV)  chargers made by Finland-based Kempower. The ongoing collaboration between the  two firms enables Kempower’s suite of EV charging solutions with a variety of  power semiconductor  technologies, including onsemi’s EliteSiC. These devices will be used in the  active AC–DC front-end and in the primary and secondary DC–DC converters. By incorporating onsemi’s EliteSiC MOSFET  technology, Kempower’s EV charging solutions will benefit in terms of power,  performance and reliability. With low ON-resistance and minimal gate and output  capacitance, EliteSiC power devices  are said to exhibit lower power losses  at high operating frequencies,  leading to increased system efficiency and reduced end-system size. These  advantages translate into higher power density  and greater overall reliability for Kempower’s EV charging solutions. “onsemi EliteSiC power devices improve the  efficiency and lower the size and weight of our EV charging solutions,”  comments Kempower’s chief engineer  Petri Korhonen. “In addition, onsemi’s vertically integrated supply chain and broad portfolio of  intelligent power solutions  give us the stability needed to continue delivering world-class EV charging solutions  to the market.” Under the strategic agreement, Kempower will  incorporate the latest EliteSiC D3 diode and M3S MOSFETs into its EV charging  solutions. These chargers allow for dynamic load balancing, ensuring maximum power distribution. Kempower charging solutions are  cloud-connected and scalable, giving the modularity that allows fleet and  charging point operators to  scale their systems in line with demand. “Our strength in manufacturing and resilient SiC  supply chain assure  Kempower that we will deliver high-quality products in the agreed-upon volumes  today and in the future,” says Asif Jakwani, senior VP & general manager  of onsemi’s Advanced Power Division. “Incorporating highly reliable power devices leads to the dependable  and durable EVCs that Kempower and its customers expect every time.” 