NUBURU reports Q1 revenue of $0.47m For first-quarter 2023, NUBURU Inc  of Centennial, CO, USA has reported revenue of about $0.47m (up on $0.09m  a year ago) after it launched  and began taking orders for the new BL Series  laser. Founded in 2015, NUBURU is a developer and manufacturer of  industrial blue lasers that leverage  their high-brightness, high-power design to produce fast, high-quality laser  materials processing. “We have seen continued forward progress in our key markets of  welding, 3D printing and defense,” says  CEO & co-founder Dr Mark Zediker. During Q1/2023, NUBURU continued to deliver units to Essentium as  part of a multi-year partnership focused on metal 3D printing for the aerospace, automotive and defense markets. The firm also delivered the world’s first blue 3D printer light engine to a technical partner under a contract with the US  Air Force. “Our work with the US Air Force  and our ongoing partnerships underscore the building momentum in our commercial  pipeline,” says Zediker. In addition, NUBURU was selected by the US Department of Defense  for participation on a firm-fixed-price,  indefinite-delivery/indefinite-quantity, multiple-party award contract with a  maximum ceiling of $75m. “Our performance in the first quarter highlights the continued  customer adoption of our blue laser technology in critical applications and  materials,” comments Zediker. Net cash used in operating activities during  Q1/2023 was $4.05m (more than doubling from from $1.9m a year ago). Capital  expenditure (CapEx) was $0.345m (up from $0.1m a year ago). Free cash flow was  hence –$4.4m (more than doubling from –$2m a year ago). As of end-March, cash and cash equivalents were $1.52m. However,  additional cash has since been received by the company. NUBURU has reiterated its full-year 2023 guidance of  revenue in excess of $3m, EBITDA (earnings  before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) in the range of –$21m  to –$23m, and free cash flow in the range of –$24m  to –$26m. The firm believes that it has access to sufficient sources  of capital to fund this business plan. 