POET receives first volume purchase order for optical engines POET Technologies Inc of Toronto,  Ontario, Canada — designer and developer of the POET Optical Interposer, photonic integrated circuits (PICs) and light sources for the data-center,  telecom and artificial intelligence  (AI) markets — says that the first volume production order for its  optical engines have been placed with 80%-owned joint venture company  Super Photonics Xiamen (SPX). Valued at more than US$3m, the purchase order was placed by  Beijing FeiYunYi Technology Ltd (BFYY), which will produce optical  transceiver modules using POET-designed optical engines for sale to  telecom and data-center markets globally. This initial volume purchase order  was placed against BFYY’s 3-year forecast of US$30m in expected optical engine  purchases. With deep connections to the telecom industry in China, BFYY is  investing heavily in transceiver module design and manufacturing to build,  market and sell optical transceiver modules specifically focused on large  telecom and data-center service providers. The modules incorporate Optical Interposer-based  optical engines which are assembled with components, tested and sold by POET’s  80%-owned JV company SPX. “POET and Super Photonics have demonstrated the superior  performance and design of these optical engines,” comments BFYY’s CEO Wei Zhang  (Wesley Zhang). “There is ongoing close collaboration among our engineering and  manufacturing teams to complete the design and start production. Feedback from  our customers is extremely positive and we want to quickly ramp to high-volume  production to service the telecom market.” POET had previously announced POET ONE, a single-chip optical engine  solution incorporating complete transmit and receive functionalities for  implementation in a 100G optical transceiver. The POET ONE optical engine  offers what is claimed to be significant performance advantages and minimizes  the transceiver design cycle time for BFYY. In addition to the cost benefits of  POET’s wafer-scale assembly, POET ONE will enable BFYY to speed the design  and qualification cycle with customers and ramp to high-volume production and  sales. “With this purchase order, POET and SPX have both achieved major  commercial milestones for our optical engines and for the companies  overall,” says Vivek Rajgarhia, president & general manager of POET  and vice-chairman of SPX. “A production order of this size validates the  commercial viability of our optical engines and other POET Optical Interposer-based  products that are specifically designed to be scalable in volume, cost and  power consumption, well ahead of current industry demands,” he adds. “Our  fundamental differentiation in bringing wafer-scale die attach, passive  optical assembly, and chip-scale manufacturing represents the true  ‘semiconductorization’ of photonics. Our partnerships with world-class  component vendors, combined with the POET Optical Interposer platform,  allows us to serve the needs of customers like BFYY in a highly competitive  market with a truly differentiated technology.” POET and SPX expect to complete the design verification testing  and reliability qualification of POET ONE by fourth-quarter 2023 and then  start production shipments to BFYY in early 2024. 