AXT’s Q1 revenue halved year-on-year For first-quarter  2023, AXT Inc of  Fremont, CA, USA – which makes gallium arsenide  (GaAs), indium phosphide (InP) and germanium (Ge) substrates and  raw materials – has reported revenue of $19.4m, down 27.6% on $26.8m last  quarter and 51.1% on $39.7m a year ago, and towards the lower end of the $19–21m guidance range. “Revenue took a step  back in Q1 as the inventory correction that we began to see in  gallium late last summer accelerated in phosphide applications,” notes CEO Morris  Young. Indium phosphide revenue  was $7.1m, almost halving  from last quarter’s $14m, reflecting  market softening. “Indium phosphide held fairly firm through January and then  experienced a meaningful decline in February and March, most notably in the  data-center and consumer applications,” says Young. Gallium arsenide revenue  has fallen further, from $12m a year ago and $5.5m last quarter to $5m, reflecting the overall slowdown across a  number of applications, particularly in China. “We  are seeing positive signs that our revenue is stabilizing and that certain  applications within gallium arsenide such as power amplifiers are  beginning to show some improvements,” says Young. “This makes sense as these  were among the first applications to experience weakness beginning in September  of last year.” Germanium substrate  revenue rebounded further, from $1.3m last quarter to $1.4m, following resolution of a payment issue  with one of AXT’s customers. In addition, revenue was $5.9m from  AXT’s two consolidated raw materials joint venture companies: BoYu (which makes  high-temperature pyrolytic boron nitride crucibles and pBN-based tools for  organic light-emitting diodes) and JinMei (which supplies high-purity materials  including gallium and germanium, as well as InP poly and other materials). This  was down on $7.9m a year ago but roughly stable with $6m last quarter, as gallium raw  material pricing remained approximately flat. Of total revenue in Q1, the proportion  from the Asia-Pacific region was 68% (down on 70% last quarter), Europe was 18%  (up from 15%) and North America was 14% (down slightly from 15%). The top five customers generated just 28% of  total revenue (down from 41% last quarter), with no customers over 10%. On a non-GAAP basis,  gross margin has fallen further, from 33.8% a year ago and 32.5% last quarter  to 26.9%, due to the lower InP revenue in the product mix. However, this was  better than the expected 21%. “We have continued to focus on manufacturing  efficiencies, and are having increasing success in our recycling efforts, which  benefitted our gross margin performance,” says Young. Operating expenses  were $8.7m, up slightly from $8.6m a year ago but cut from $9m last quarter. Net loss was $2.4m  ($0.06 per share), compared with net income of $2.1m ($0.05 per share) last quarter  and $4.3m ($0.10 per share) a year ago. However, this is better than the  expected net loss of $0.10–0.12 per share. Capital expenditure (CapEx) has been cut back beyond the targeted  $3–5m to just $2.7m (mostly related to facilities and InP  equipment). During Q1/2023, cash, cash equivalents and investments rose  slightly, from $52.8m to $53.6m. Net inventory was $91.7m. Of this, 45% is  raw materials, 51% is work-in-progress (WiP), and just 3% is finished  goods. “We had a very successful quarter in our  recycling efforts, which benefited our margins in our ESG [environmental, social and governance] efforts.  But when we grow new ingots with recycled InP, it adds to the inventory. Almost  half of the increase in inventory is still recycling,” notes chief financial officer  Gary  Fischer. “Inventory reduction remains a key focus for us this  year, and we expect to bring it down as the demand environment improves,” he  adds. Given the continuing inventory correction,  for Q2/2023 AXT again expects revenue of $19–21m.  Product mix is likely to include growth in GaAs substrates and continued  weakness in InP with no improvement in data-center and consumer applications  (although they appear to be stabilizing). Net loss is expected to rise to $0.10–0.12 per share. “As we look forward,  we believe that the trends that have driven our revenue and customer expansion  remain intact,” says Young. “We continue to excel in our technical capabilities  and are readying our business to support new applications and future growth.  Further, we continue to work towards improving our efficiency, and are focusing  on accelerating our return to profitability,” he adds. “CapEx for the whole year will  be below $5m. So we’ve  really sort of put a lid on things,” notes Fischer. Regarding micro-LEDs, Young says  that AXT continues to be encouraged by industry progress, as well as its own  progress in preparing for this opportunity. “We’re already delivering 8-inch  GaAs wafers to customers and generating modest revenue. While formal  qualification for the flagship program with our large customer won’t occur  until sometime in the second half of 2023, we have visibility into the likely  technical specification that will be required… We’re ready to ramp up  production for them sometime in 2024,” Young says. “In addition, our 8-inch  line for GaAs crystal growth is up and running at our Kazuo facility, and we are very excited by our progress in  driving improved efficiency there.” On 10 January  2022, AXT’s China-based wafer manufacturing subsidiary Beijing Tongmei Xtal  Technology Co Ltd submitted its application to list its shares in an  initial public offering on the Shanghai Stock Exchange’s Sci-Tech innovAtion  boaRd (STAR Market) and the application was accepted for review. Subsequently,  Tongmei responded to several rounds of questions received from the Shanghai  Stock Exchange (SSE). On 12 July, the SSE approved the listing of  Tongmei’s shares. On 1 August 2022, the China Securities Regulatory  Commission (CSRC) accepted Tongmei’s IPO application for review. The  STAR Market IPO remains subject to review and approval by the CSRC and  other authorities. AXT notes that  the process of going public on the STAR Market includes several periods of  review and, therefore, is a lengthy process. Nevertheless, Tongmei hopes to  accomplish this goal in the coming months. 