Microchip unveils SiC-based E-Fuse demonstrator for 400–800V battery systems High-voltage electrical subsystems throughout battery electric vehicles  (BEVs) and hybrid electric vehicles (HEVs) require a mechanism to protect  the high-voltage distribution and loads in the event of an overload condition.  To provide BEV and HEV designers with a faster and more reliable high-voltage  circuit protection solution, Microchip  Technology Inc of Chandler, AZ, USA  has announced the E-Fuse Demonstrator Board, enabled by silicon carbide  (SiC) technology, available in six variants for 400–800V battery systems and  with a current rating up to 30A. The E-Fuse demonstrator can detect and interrupt fault currents in  microseconds, 100–500 times faster than traditional mechanical approaches  because of its high-voltage solid-state design. The fast response time  substantially reduces peak short-circuit currents from tens of kilo-amps to  hundreds of amps, which can prevent a fault event from resulting in a hard  failure. “The E-Fuse demonstrator provides BEV/HEV OEM designers with a  SiC-based technology solution to jumpstart their development process with a  faster, more reliable method for protecting power electronics,” says  Clayton Pillion, VP of Microchip’s silicon carbide business unit.  “The E-Fuse solid-state design also alleviates long-term reliability concerns  about electro-mechanical devices because there is no degradation from  mechanical shock, arcing or contact bounce.” With the E-Fuse demonstrator’s re-settable feature, designers can  package an E-Fuse in the vehicle without the burden of  design-for-serviceability constraints. This reduces design complexities and  enables flexible vehicle packaging to improve BEV/HEV power system  distribution. OEMs can accelerate development of SiC-based auxiliary  applications with the E-Fuse demonstrator because of the built in Local  Interconnect Network (LIN) communication interface. The LIN interface enables  the configuration of the over-current trip characteristics without the need to  modify hardware components, and it also reports diagnostic status. The E-Fuse demonstrator leverages the ruggedness and performance  of Microchip’s SiC MOSFET technology and PIC microcontrollers’ Core  Independent Peripherals (CIPs) with a LIN-based interface. The companion  components are automotive-qualified and yield a lower part count and  higher reliability over a discrete design. The E-Fuse Demonstrator Board is supported by MPLAB X Integrated  Development Environment (IDE) to enable customers to quickly  develop or debug software. The LIN Serial Analyzer development tool  allows customers to send and receive serial messages from a PC to the E-Fuse  Demonstrator Board. The E-Fuse Demonstrator Board is available in limited sampling  upon request. 