Infineon and Foxconn partnering on silicon carbide for EVs Infineon Technologies AG and Taiwan-based Hon Hai  Technology Group (Foxconn), the world’s largest electronics manufacturing  services (EMS) provider, aim to establish a long-term partnership in the field  of electric vehicles (EV) to jointly develop advanced electro-mobility  with efficient and intelligent features. The Memorandum of Understanding (MoU)  focuses on silicon carbide (SiC) development, leveraging Infineon’s  automotive SiC innovations and Foxconn’s expertise in automotive systems. “With the rapid growth of the EV market and the associated need  for more range and performance, the development of electro-mobility must  continue to advance and innovate,” says Peter Schiefer, president of the  Infineon Automotive Division.  Picture:    From left to right: Peter Schiefer  (president of Infineon Automotive Division) and Jun Seki  (Foxconn’s chief strategy officer  for EVs). “This collaboration will result in optimized architecture, product  performance, cost competitiveness and high system integration to provide  customers with the most competitive automotive solutions,” believes Jun Seki,  Foxconn’s chief strategy officer for EVs. According to the MoU, the two firms will collaborate on the  implementation of SiC technology in automotive high-power applications like  traction inverters, onboard chargers, and DC-DC converters. Both  parties intend to jointly develop EV solutions with outstanding performance and  efficiency based on Infineon’s automotive system understanding, technical  support and SiC product offerings combined with Foxconn’s electronics design  and manufacturing expertise and the capability of system-level integration. In addition, the two companies plan to establish a system  application center in Taiwan to further expand the scope of their cooperation.  This center will focus on optimizing vehicle applications, including smart cabin  applications, advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS) and autonomous driving  applications. It will also address electro-mobility applications such as  battery management systems and traction inverters. The collaboration spans  a wide range of Infineon’s automotive products, including sensors,  microcontrollers, power semiconductors, high-performance memories for  specific applications, human-machine interface and security solutions. The  system application center is expected to be established within 2023. 