Aehr receives first FOX-XP order for production wafer-level burn-in of silicon photonics ICs Aehr Test Systems of Fremont, CA, USA has received  the first order for a new high-power configuration of its FOX-XP system for  production wafer-level burn-in of next-generation silicon photonics  integrated circuits (ICs) from an existing major silicon photonics  customer. This FOX-XP multi-wafer test and burn-in system is configured to  enable cost-effective production test of the next generation of silicon photonics  ICs, which can require up to 2-4 times as much power for full wafer test,  burn-in and stabilization of the silicon photonics devices. Shipment of  this new higher-power-configured FOX-XP is scheduled for first-quarter 2024. “We are excited to receive this first order for this system  configuration from one of the world’s largest semiconductor manufacturers and  expect them to order additional production systems as they ramp capacity for  these devices,” says president & CEO Gayn Erickson. “This new FOX  production system configuration expands the market opportunities of the FOX-XP  system, as it’s able to test, burn-in and stabilize up to nine 300mm wafers in  parallel with up to 3.5kW of power per wafer, which is beyond the wafer  parallelism and power capacity of any system on the market. The system is also  configured to allow direct docking to Aehr’s new fully automated FOX WaferPak  Aligner and material handling system.” “Multiple major semiconductor suppliers and foundries have  announced their plans to manufacture and integrate silicon photonics into  multi-chip packages, often now referred to as co-packaged devices or  heterogenous integration, such as high-performance microprocessors, graphics  processors, and processor to peripheral device chipsets,” continues Erickson.  “These new devices have been predicted to dramatically improve the  communication bandwidth between semiconductor devices beyond the bottleneck of  traditional electrical interfaces used today. The challenge is that the devices  individually can require a long production burn-in to weed out early failures  or long stress tests to stabilize them before they can be assembled in the  package with the other devices. This drives the need for high-volume, low-cost  burn-in of these devices in wafer form, which is exactly what Aehr’s FOX-XP  family of test and burn-in systems have been proven to successfully achieve.” Aehr says that its FOX-XP system uses proprietary thermal chucks  with a very high thermally conductive heat transfer fluid that allows  direct thermal conduction transfer to apply and/or remove the wafer heat  extremely efficiently and uniformly. This enables the system to control each  wafer temperature very accurately at a temperature that ensures that the  maximum stress conditions are applied without over-stressing any devices in the  middle or at the edges of the wafer, where typical issues would occur on such  high-power wafers. 
  “Our FOX systems use our proprietary and patented WaferPak  full-wafer contactors that contact each device under test using precision  current and voltage sources and independent measurement instruments to detect  and ensure 100% traceability that every device was tested properly to the test recipe  for voltage, current, power and temperature,” says Erickson. The FOX-XP with the optional fully integrated FOX WaferPak Aligner  uses these proprietary WaferPak full-wafer contactors and enables high-volume,  hands-free operation using Front Opening Unified Pods (FOUPs), factory  integration with SECs/GEM communication protocols, and is capable of automated  material movement of wafer FOUPs with mobile robots or overhead material  handling systems. The integrated WaferPak Aligner supports 100mm, 150mm, 200mm  and 300mm wafer sizes using industry-standard wafer cassettes and FOUPs,  which allows customers to easily support multiple wafer sizes and to move  and align the wafers automatically into Aehr’s proprietary WaferPaks and place  the WaferPaks into and out of multi-wafer FOX-XP systems that test and burn-in  up to 18 wafers at a time. “Adding automation through our new Aligner gives our wafer-level  test and burn-in offering even greater value, as well as opens up several large  incremental markets to Aehr such as high-volume processors and chipsets with  integrated photonics transceivers, flash and DRAM memories, and also higher-mix  devices requiring extremely high reliability and 100% burn-in such as  automotive microcontrollers and sensors,” says Erickson. The FOX-XP system, available with multiple WaferPak Contactors  (full-wafer test) or multiple DiePak Carriers (singulated die/module test)  configurations, is capable of functional test and burn-in/cycling of integrated  devices such as silicon carbide (SiC) power devices, silicon photonics  as well as other optical devices, 2D and 3D sensors, flash memories, gallium nitride  (GaN), magnetic sensors, microcontrollers, and other leading-edge ICs in either  wafer form factor, before they are assembled into single- or multi-die  stacked packages, or in singulated die or module form factor. 