Navitas enters high-power markets with GeneSiC SiCPAK modules and bare die Gallium nitride (GaN) power IC and silicon carbide (SiC) technology firm Navitas Semiconductor of Torrance, CA, USA  has expanded its portfolio into higher-power markets with its silicon carbide  power products in SiCPAK modules and bare die. Target applications span centralized and string  solar inverters, energy storage systems (ESS),  industrial motion, electric vehicle (EV) on-board chargers, EV  roadside fast chargers, wind energy, uninterruptible  power system (UPS),  bi-directional micro-grids, DC–DC converters, and solid-state circuit  breakers. Ranging from 650V to 6500V, Navitas claims to have the widest range  of SiC technology. From an original line-up of discrete packages — from 8mm x 8mm  surface-mount QFNs to through-hole TO-247s — the GeneSiC SiCPAK is an initial,  direct entry point into higher-power applications. A comprehensive power module  roadmap — with high-voltage SiC MOSFETs and MPS diodes, GaN power ICs,  high-speed digital isolators and low-voltage silicon control ICs — is  being mapped out.  “With a complete portfolio of leading-edge power, control and  isolation technology, Navitas will enable customers to accelerate the  transition from fossil fuels, and legacy silicon power products to  new, renewable energy sources and next-generation semiconductors, with  more powerful, more efficient, faster-charging systems,” says Dr Ranbir  Singh, executive VP for SiC. SiCPAK modules employ ‘press-fit’ technology to offer compact  form factors for power circuits and deliver cost-effective, power-dense  solutions to end users. The modules are built on GeneSiC die. Examples  include a SiCPAK half-bridge module, rated at 6mΩ,  1200V, with trench-assisted planar-gate SiC MOSFET technology. Multiple  configurations of SiC MOSFETs and MPS diodes will be available to  create application-specific modules. The initial release will include  1200V-rated half-bridge modules in 6mΩ,  12mΩ, 20mΩ  and 30mΩ ratings. 