Infineon adds CoolSiC power modules using 3.3kV MOSFETs in XHP 2 package, targeting traction applications To meet global climate targets, transportation must shift to more  environmentally friendly vehicles such as energy-efficient electrified trains. However,  trains have demanding operating profiles with frequent acceleration and  braking, while being expected to operate reliably over a long service life. Consequently, energy-efficient  traction applications with high-power density, reliability and quality are  required for implementation. Infineon  Technologies AG of Munich, Germany says that it is addressing these  requirements by adding two new products to its CoolSiC power module portfolio. The FF2000UXTR33T2M1 and FF2600UXTR33T2M1 power modules use newly developed 3.3kV CoolSiC  MOSFETs and Infineon’s .XT interconnection technology. The modules come in XHP 2 package and have been specifically  tailored for traction applications.  Picture:    Infineon’s CoolSiC XHP 2  3.3kV high-power module. Designed for demanding applications such as traction, the devices  are being presented in booth #412 (Hall 7)  at the Power, Control and Intelligent Motion  (PCIM) Europe 2023 trade show  in Nuremberg, Germany (9–11 May). “For environmentally friendly  mobility, rail technology requires innovative semiconductor solutions designed  specifically for these applications,” says Dr Peter  Wawer, division president of Infineon’s Green Industrial Power Division. “With low switching losses and the ability to enable higher switching frequencies, Infineon’s new silicon carbide products contribute to greener  and quieter trains, which are extremely important features for tomorrow’s train  traffic.” In addition to an efficient and robust silicon carbide (SiC) chip, power modules for traction drives require packaging that allow fast  switching, along with interconnection technologies that enable a long service  life time. Infineon says that its new  power modules offer such features:  the CoolSiC MOSFET chips with integrated body diodes  in Infineon's XHP 2 packaging enable  low switching losses while  maintaining high reliability and power density. The XHP 2 packaging  also features low stray inductance,  a symmetrical and scalable design, and high current-carrying capability. The  FF2000UXTR33T2M1 module offers a drain–source on-state resistance of 2.0mΩ, while  the FF2600UXTR33T2M1 features a drain–source on-state resistance of 2.6mΩ.  Despite the demanding operating profiles of trains, Infineon’s .XT interconnect  technology improves power cycling  capabilities. Compared with conventional solutions, CoolSiC power modules enable overall energy consumption in the motor and converter of  the train to be reduced by 10%, Infineon reckons. Additionally, train operators  benefit from a more compact, lighter converter, along with a simplified cooling  systems. While this is paying into the decarbonization efforts of Infineon,  traction manufacturers and railway service operators, citizens also benefit  from lower noise levels when trains  go through a neighbourhood, says the firm. A SiC-based  XHP 2 power module has been proven in a joint field test with streetcars conducted by  Siemens Mobility and Stadtwerke München (SWM) in 2022. The test has shown  that power semiconductors based on  SiC significantly reduce engine noise  during operation. The CoolSiC XHP 2 3.3kV  high-power modules are available as  samples for selected customers. 