Wolfspeed’s revenue growth constrained by 200mm SiC material capacity ramp For its fiscal  third-quarter 2023 (to end-March), Wolfspeed Inc  of Durham, NC, USA – which makes silicon carbide materials as well as silicon carbide  (SiC) and gallium nitride (GaN) power-switching & RF semiconductor  devices – has reported revenue of $228.7m, up 6% on $216.1m last  quarter and up 22% on $188m a year ago, and at the high end of the $210–230m guidance range. “Looking at RF products, we continue to  see weaker demand, but within range of our prior estimates [about $15m lower than initially expected],”  says chief financial officer Neill Reynolds. Power device product revenue grew more  than 50% year-over-year. “We have achieved full capacity in our Durham wafer  fab,” notes Reynolds.  During the quarter, Wolfspeed recognized initial revenue from its new Mohawk Valley fab (opened  in April 2022). “While it’s a relatively small number of devices shipped  to an industrial off-board charging  customer, it’s an important proof point  that we are now producing product on 200mm [SiC] substrates,” says CEO Gregg Lowe.  “The learnings from this first shipment will inform our ramp in devices as we  continue to expand our capacity to address increasing demand,” he adds. “We saw strong revenue growth from our  merchant 150mm silicon carbide  substrates as we solved many of the production challenges we had on the taller  boules, albeit at higher-than-expected costs,” says Reynolds. “This  results in a one-time inventory drain, and we expect revenue levels to return  to more steady-state run-rate levels in fiscal Q4  and beyond.” Impacted by lower yields and higher costs  on the firm’s taller 150mm boules, plus a heavier mix of high-volume automotive  customers running on the smaller 150mm wafers in the Durham fab, gross margin (on  a non-GAAP basis) has hence fallen further, from 36.3% a year ago and 33.6%  last quarter to 32.3% (near the low end  of the 32–34% guidance range). As the  revenue growth was offset by lower gross margins and higher investments in OpEx, net loss was $16m ($0.13 per diluted share), up from $14.2m ($0.11 per diluted share) last  quarter and $14.3m ($0.12 per diluted share) a year ago. Net cash used in  operating activities was $11m  (cut from $67m last quarter and $28.4m a  year ago). However, capital expenditure (CapEx) has  more than doubled from $102.8m a year ago  and $104.1m last quarter to $233.9m. Free cash outflow was hence $245m (up from $171.1m last quarter and almost doubling from  $131.2m a year ago). During fiscal  Q3/2023, cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments therefore fell from  $2484.4m to $2248.2m. During the quarter, Wolfspeed incurred  start-up costs (related primarily to the  Mohawk Valley fab) of about $45m.  “Moving forward, we expect overall start-up and underutilization costs for  Mohawk Valley to start winding down  as we ramp the fab,” says Lowe. For full-year fiscal 2023, Wolfspeed targets  about $160m of start-up and underutilization costs. “Producing more silicon carbide epiwafers  out of our Durham facility will be the governor on our Mohawk Valley ramp in the short term, and our  longer-term outlook is supported by the ramp of the JP [John Palmour Manufacturing Center for Silicon Carbide, in  Siler City, NC],” notes Lowe. “To support capacity expansion  efforts, we’ve realigned the team with operations leaders now reporting  directly to myself and Neill,” he adds. “Missy Stigall is overseeing devices  and our wafer fabs, while Adam Milton will lead the materials production for  the company. This will provide greater visibility into the ramp of substrates  as well as our device footprint expansion.” Design-ins in fiscal  Q3/2023 were $1.7bn. Complementing $700m for automotive applications, this  includes a new quarterly record for non-automotive designs, which included  a heat-pump application and an electric vehicle  (EV) off-board charger. Year-to-date  design-ins for fiscal Q1–Q3/2023 are $6.7bn (greater than full-year fiscal 2022’s record). Wolfspeed’s cumulative  total for design-ins secured since fiscal 2020 is now about $18bn. Reflecting  the low single-digit revenue (about $2m) from  the Mohawk Valley fab, for its fiscal  fourth-quarter 2023 Wolfspeed expects revenue of $212–232m (slightly down quarter-on-quarter at the mid-point). “We are essentially capped in Durham from  a power device capacity perspective.  Going forward, much of the incremental revenue we will generate will be from  Mohawk Valley,” notes Reynolds. “In  addition, we will see lower materials revenue related to the one-time inventory  drain in Q3 as we improved output on our taller 150mm boules that will not  repeat in Q4,” he adds. As Wolfspeed continues to work through the  cost recovery on the taller 150mm boules, and after shifting the Durham fab mix  to higher-volume automotive customers that were initially slated to be produced  in Mohawk Valley, gross margin is  expected to fall to 29–31%. With operating expenses of $105–106m,  operating loss should rise to $34–43m. Including a non-operating net gain of  about $5m and after realizing $8-10m of tax management, net loss is expected to  rise to $21–29m ($0.17–0.23  per diluted share). Scaling up SiC materials manufacturing to  feed the Mohawk Valley is being  slowed by two things, notes Lowe. “One is some infrastructure delays that we  had – things like switchgear and things like that –  as we expanded in our Building 10  facility in Durham, so basically supply chain  issues with electrical infrastructure. That’s been resolved, and we’re now  expanding inside Building 10. The  second is a more methodical approach to growing the capacity.” Due primarily to the timing of facility  spend related to the 200mm substrate expansion (particularly  on the Siler City project),  Wolfspeed has reduced its forecast for CapEx in fiscal full-year 2023 from $1bn  to $775m. “In terms of our capital needs, we  continue to evaluate multiple avenues of additional funding, including upfront  customer payments or investment debt instruments and government funding in the  USA and Europe. While we cannot comment on the timing or certainty of any  government funding, we believe we have made great progress in this regard,”  says Reynolds.  “In addition, we believe we need to secure approximately $1bn of additional  non-government financing between now and the end of the calendar year to  support an approximate $2bn of CapEx in fiscal 2024. The majority of this  investment will be for 200mm substrate facility construction and tool capacity  both at JP in Siler City and our  Durham campus in North Carolina,  with the intention of leveraging this investment to ramp the Mohawk Valley fab as fast as possible,” he adds. “Given that our growth will be governed by  how quickly we ramp 200mm substrate capacity and, in turn, the Mohawk Valley fab, we will target fiscal 2024  revenue between $1–1.1bn [reduced by 35%from the $1.6bn  forecast given at last’s October Analyst Day],” says Reynolds.  “This outlook assumes we achieve 20% capacity utilization at Mohawk Valley by the fourth quarter of fiscal  2024, while our epi materials  product line revenues remain closer  to current levels as we focus our efforts and resources on ramping 200mm  substrates in Mohawk Valley. Additionally,  as a result of the ramp time-line and continued focus on customer time-lines,  we plan to run more auto-related products at a smaller 150mm diameter in the  Durham fab for the foreseeable future,” he adds. “As we are in the early stages  of these critical EV ramps, it is important to support our customer ramp  schedules. This will flatten the gross margin  trajectory for the next several quarters until Mohawk Valley reaches critical mass. That said, as we reach 20%  utilization at Mohawk Valley [beyond  end-fiscal 2024], we would expect the trajectory for gross margin to improve because the unit  economics are significantly more favorable than Durham.” 
  “While we are currently investing a modest  amount of design work for the German Saarland fab [announced in February], we  don’t expect to see significant facility-construction-related CapEx until  calendar year 2024 while we await  final incentive notification from European authorities,” says Reynolds. “However,  we have made good progress on this front and, as of now, expect final  notification later this calendar year.” 