China’s SICC and TanKeBlue to supply silicon carbide wafers and boules to Infineon To diversify its silicon carbide  (SiC) material supplier base and to secure additional SiC sources, Infineon Technologies AG of Munich, Germany  has signed two separate agreements for Chinese SiC suppliers SICC Co Ltd  and TanKeBlue  Semiconductor Co Ltd  to supply 150mm SiC wafers  and boules, each covering a double-digit share of the forecasted demand in the  long term. The agreements  will focus on supplying 150mm SiC material in the first phase, but both SICC  and TanKeBlue will then also provide 200mm SiC material to support Infineon’s  transition to 200mm wafer diameter. It is reckoned that the deals will  contribute to general supply chain  stability, particularly regarding the growing demand for SiC devices for  automotive, solar and electric vehicle  (EV) charging applications as well as energy storage  systems in the Chinese market. The deals will also generally support the rapid  growth in the SiC industry. “Infineon is  significantly expanding its manufacturing capacities at its production sites in  Malaysia and Austria to meet the growing demand for SiC,” says Infineon’s chief  procurement officer Angelique van der Burg.  “To offer the most comprehensive product range possible to our customers,  Infineon is currently doubling down on its investments in SiC technology and  product portfolio. In this context, we are implementing a multi-supplier and  multi-country sourcing strategy to increase resilience to the benefit of our  broad customer base, and are securing new competitive top-quality sources  globally, matching the highest standards in the market,” she adds. “SICC’s substrates are widely used in the power SiC field. We are pleased to team up with  Infineon as our customer, a global leader in power semiconductors,” says SICC’s  CEO Zong Yanmin. “SICC will continuously expand capacity to add more value for  its global customers,” he adds. “We welcome  the opportunity to team up with our customer Infineon, a global leader in power  semiconductors,” comments TanKeBlue’s CEO Yang Jian. “TanKeBlue plans to  continuously improve its SiC material and develop its next generation of 200mm  wafer technology,” he adds. Infineon is currently expanding its SiC manufacturing capacity in  order to achieve its target of a 30% global market share  by the end of the decade. Its SiC manufacturing capacity will increase tenfold  by 2027. A new plant in Kulim, Malaysia is scheduled to start production in  2024, adding to existing manufacturing capacities in Villach, Austria. Infineon  already provides SiC devices to more than 3600 automotive and industrial  customers worldwide. 