Cambridge GaN Devices presents at PCIM Cambridge GaN Devices Ltd (CGD) — which was spun  out of the University of Cambridge Department of Engineering’s Electrical Power  and Energy Conversion group in 2016 and designs, develops and commercializes  power transistors and ICs that use GaN-on-silicon substrates — is reflecting its transition from start-up  to scale-up with a significantly increased presence at the Power, Control and Intelligent Motion (PCIM) Europe 2023 event in Nuremberg, Germany (9–11 May). The firm is unveiling the next generation  of its ICeGaN high-electron-mobility transistor (HEMT)  family, detailing innovations that support dual claims concerning ease-of-use  and ruggedness, and providing a full suite of demonstrations. “The world is eager for GaN to play a leading role in increasing  sustainability in many aspects of our lives. CGD is playing a leading role in  this movement, by delivering GaN devices that are the easiest to use, while at  the same time, being the most rugged and reliable,” says co-founder & CEO Dr Giorgia Longobardi. “PCIM is an  excellent stage for CGD to prove these statements, and we encourage every  visitor to challenge us with their latest designs and applications.” On 11 May (11.15-11.35am) on the Exhibitor Stage (Hall 9.551),  Longobardi is introducing the new HEMT family with a presentation ‘CGD  Introduce Next Level of Energy savings, Robustness & Reliability for 650V  GaN with New ICeGaN Family of SoC Solutions’. In booth 372 (Hall 7), CGD  is presenting data from Virginia Tech that prove the ruggedness and reliability  of the firm’s technology. Designers can also learn how they can easily evaluate  CGD’s ICeGaN HEMTs without redesigning their existing boards. A full range of demonstrations at  PCIM incudes: “CGD has all the elements in place – technology, products,  manufacturing, infrastructure, distribution – to ensure that we can support the  burgeoning GaN market,” reckons chief commercial officer Andrea Bricconi.  “We are ready to deliver our ICeGaN HEMTs in mass-production quantities for all  markets.” 