BAE Systems and Eaton co-developing electric drive for medium-duty commercial trucks BAE Systems ─  which develops and services electric propulsion technology at its facilities in  Endicott, New York, USA and Rochester, UK ─ is collaborating with intelligent  power management company Eaton to develop electric vehicle (EV)  technology solutions. Through a memorandum of understanding (MoU), the firms  will initially offer a solution for the medium-duty commercial truck  platforms market. A Class-7 pickup and delivery demonstration vehicle is  already in development. BAE Systems will  incorporate its power-dense electric motor and silicon carbide (SiC)/gallium nitride  (GaN) power electronics suite with Eaton’s MD 4-speed EV transmission to  provide a comprehensive EV system for medium-duty vehicles, such as those used  for a variety of pick-up and delivery applications. The complete solution is  intended to provide original equipment manufacturers with a durable,  high-performance, compact, efficient and optimized system with flexibility to  work with multiple zero-emission platforms. “Our  complementary strengths and industry knowledge in providing clean  transportation solutions will address a critical need for new, clean technology  options for the global truck market,” says Steve Trichka, VP & general manager  of Power & Propulsion Solutions at BAE Systems. “Together, BAE Systems  and Eaton will enable electric drive systems that are efficient, modular  and scalable,” he adds. “Our medium duty  4-speed EV transmissions are proven in the industry to offer class-leading  performance through superior acceleration and gradeability, while delivering  advanced efficiency for the EV system,” claims Mark Kramer, business unit  director, ePowertrain, Eaton’s Vehicle Group. The MoU joins two  companies with what is said to be a deep understanding of electrification and  mobility. BAE Systems has more than two decades of experience developing  and integrating electric propulsion systems, including hybrid and fully  electric technology. Eaton has extensive transmission expertise and a proven  track record in drivetrain durability. 