Hamamatsu Photonics constructing new building at Miyakoda factory to boost laser production On 10 May, Japan-based Hamamatsu Photonics K.K. is holding a groundbreaking  ceremony for the construction of a new building (costing about 4bn yen)  at its Miyakoda Factory site in Shinmiyakoda, Kita-ku, Hamamatsu City, Shizuoka Prefecture. Scheduled for completion in July 2024  followed by starting operation  that October, the 1780m2 Building No. 4  (with four storeys, providing total floor space  of 6720m2) will accommodation about 160 staff and increase production capacity to about 25  million lasers per year (converted to single chips) in response to the increasing demand for semiconductor lasers essential  in light detection & ranging (LiDAR)  applications.  Picture:   Artist’s impression of Miyakoda Factory Building No. 4. Hamamatsu Photonics develops, manufactures and sells semiconductor  lasers and laser oscillators used in fields including measurement, analysis,  laser processing, factory automation and medical applications. This  includes optoelectronic devices requiring a broad range of laser types. Sensing technologies using light are now utilized in a vast range  of diverse applications including LiDAR, which uses semiconductor lasers for  contact-free and high-precision measurement of the position and shape of  objects over long distances, and is currently applied to autonomous driving.  They are also present in many other applications including public  transportation infrastructure, automated transport, and autonomous mobile  robots. A vast expansion in the LiDAR product market can hence be expected in  the future, says Hamamatsu. Hamamatsu’s new building at the Miyakoda Factory site will  consolidate post-processing steps (after wafer process) in semiconductor laser  manufacture. Currently, these are dispersed to different locations in the  factory site. Construction of the new factory building will expand production  space to meet ever-increasing product demand. This newest building will allow  the firm to optimize workflow lines between production processes and also  install the latest in manufacturing and inspection equipment. This will promote  process automation and efficiency, hence improving productivity, reckons the  firm. The factory has an earthquake-resistant design to make it more disaster  resilient and proactively incorporates eco-friendly measures such as  heat-insulating structures and solar power  generation systems. “We are one of the very few companies in the world that  manufactures both photodetectors and light sources,”  claims Hamamatsu Photonics. “This gives us the advantage of being able to  propose an optimum set of photodetectors and light sources  that are specifically designed, developed and manufactured to match each  application,” it adds. “Taking this advantage, we aim to expand sales of  semiconductor lasers, including those for LiDAR.” 