Compound semiconductor market growing at 6.1% CAGR to $61.911m by 2030 The compound semiconductor market was $38.552bn in 2022 and is rising at a compound annual growth rate  (CAGR) of 6.1% to $61.911bn in 2030, forecasts a report  published by P&S Intelligence. Growth is ascribed primarily to the rising  demand for silicon carbide (SiC) devices in power electronics.  However, the market is currently dominated by gallium nitride  (GaN), which has a market share of over 30%, and this situation will remain  unchanged in the years to come, it is reckoned. High breakdown voltage and  low conduction resistance are maintained by GaN, allowing the  miniaturization of equipment and high-speed switching. Furthermore, due to  their compactness, high electron mobility and densities are easily  supported by GaN devices. Moreover, compared with silicon variants, the advantages of GaN  devices such as higher energy efficiency, faster device speed, lower  costs, high power density, operability at higher temperatures, higher  frequency and higher operating voltage are likely to drive market  progress. In addition, the penetration of GaN in RF devices in power  applications is likely to intensify market growth, due to the demand for  smartphones, tablets, laptops, gaming consoles, surveillance systems,  computers, TVs, networking equipment, and IoT devices. Along with this, rapid  infrastructure development is driving demand for power amplifiers. Also, rising demand for ADAS (advanced  driver assistance systems) around  the globe can be seen as a growth opportunity for players in the  optoelectronics sector. For example, both the USA and the European Union  (EU) have mandated that all new vehicles be installed with forward-collision  warning systems and autonomous emergency braking systems. The power electronics sector dominated the compound semiconductor  market in 2022 and is expected to remain the largest application sector over  the next few years, due to the increasing use of compound semiconductors  in smart-home appliances and cutting-edge consumer electronics,  it is reckoned. GaN has become a significant building block for power electronics,  helping to improve the energy efficiency of LEDs, mobile devices, and  other appliances. Moreover, SiC devices have three times the thermal conductivity  and ten times the breakdown electric field strength of silicon-based  devices. These features reduce the complexity and cost of the device, improve  its reliability, and allow it to be used in several high-voltage applications,  such as solar inverters, power supplies, and wind turbines. The  market for silicon carbide power devices is growing significantly  because of the rising demand for power electronics, including in the  aerospace & defense sector. In addition, the electric vehicle (EV) market is a key growth  driver because semiconductors are essential to modern EVs. In the same way,  military systems, sensor systems, solar power inverters, wind turbines  and many other types of system are increasingly being equipped with SiC  devices. Seeing the rising demand, in August 2022 Infineon Technologies AG  and II-VI Inc signed a multi-year agreement for SiC wafers. The telecoms category comprised the largest share, of 44%, in 2022,  and is expected to remain the largest over the next few years. The increasing  use of gallium arsenide (GaAs), silicon germanium (SiGe), indium phosphide  (InP) and gallium nitride (GaN) compound semiconductor devices in  mobiles and other wireless communication products is boosting market growth.  This is itself due to the growing demand for 5G networks, which will transform  the wireless communication sector. Demand for higher bandwidths is rising because of booming mobile  data usage, which implies greater stress on networks for the availability  of the wireless spectrum. Mobile data traffic is expected to reach 10 Exabytes  per month by 2025. The telecom sector is therefore looking for extremely  high-frequency bands, which fulfill the need for large bandwidths and high data rates.  For instance, AT&T Inc introduced its millimeter-wave 5G network with  the launch of the Galaxy S20 Plus and S20 Ultra by Samsung Electronics Co Ltd  in March 2020. Additionally, the high speed and efficiency of compound semiconductors over silicon are the main driving factors for the former’s  use in enhanced communication devices. Moreover, the advancement in multiple  emerging technologies, such as the Internet of Things (IoT),  artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning, is driving demand  for semiconductor technologies. Moreover, GaAs devices are frequently used in power switches,  amplifiers and cell phones. Further growth in the usage of GaAs in  wireless communications would be due to its superior speed and efficiency over  silicon. The material is also widely used in the aerospace & defense sector  for a broad range of applications, such as power supplies for space  equipment and aircraft, VLF transmitters, and solid-state relays and  contactors. In this regard, increasing defense spending and rising usage of  electronic components in fighter jets, tanks and armored personnel carriers  are expected to drive market growth. North America has a  significant position in the of compound semiconductor market, generating over 22%  of revenue in 2022, and is expected to remain dominant over the next few years.  Demand is rising mainly because of measures of the US and Canadian governments to  enhance their military capabilities and communications infrastructure. Therefore,  players are increasing their investment in order to boost the output of smart  devices for telecom, consumer electronics, and IT applications. For example, in  May 2022, JX Nippon Mining & Metals USA Inc received financial help  from Japan Bank for the construction of a new establishment in Arizona, USA. European is expected to grow at a steady rate, led by the UK,  which dominated the compound semiconductor market in the region in 2022  and is projected to do so during the forecast period. Germany is the fastest-growing market in Europe because of the improvements in the automobile  sector, which drive the use of microelectronics. In this regard, the  electrification of vehicles, introduction of AI and digitalization are the main  factors driving growth in Germany. 