McGill University grant to accelerate NS Nanotech’s commercialization of nano-LED technologies NS Nanotech Inc of Ann Arbor, MI, USA says that NS Nanotech  Canada in Montréal, Québec (founded in November 2022) has received matching funding support from  McGill University’s Office of Innovation & Partnerships (I&P) to  accelerate the commercialization of next-generation nano-LED technologies. The  I&P Partnerships Program is supported by Québec’s Ministère de l’Éducation  and the Ministère de l’Enseignment Supérieur. NS Nanotech Canada’s recently established R&D center is  leveraging exclusive licenses to a portfolio of patents owned by McGill  University to develop what is said to be the first efficient submicron-scale  nano-LEDs. Commercialization of the laboratory technologies should help to  enable next-generation LEDs for TVs, mobile phones, smart watches, augmented-reality (AR) headset  glasses, and other applications including disinfection with ultraviolet  light. “We appreciate the support of the Québec government and McGill  University as we staff up our research and development centre in Montréal,”  says NS Nanotech’s CEO & co-founder Seth Coe-Sullivan. “Our  collaboration with McGill’s world-class researchers will accelerate progress  toward a new generation of nano-materials and semiconductor products with  revolutionary capabilities,” he adds.  Picture: NS Nanotech  Canada’s senior scientist David Laleyan (left) and chief operating officer  Derrick Wong (center) and McGill University professor Songrui Zhao  (right) work with nano-LED fabrication equipment at Zhao’s research laboratory. “We welcome NS Nanotech’s investment in a new center of  excellence in Montréal, and we are pleased to support its collaborative  research with McGill’s research scientists,” says Mark Weber, director,  Innovation + Partnerships, at McGill University. “Their work will  enhance the position of McGill University and the Québec region as a magnet for  innovative organizations developing world-changing technologies.” McGill University established the I+P Partnerships Program in 2019  to catalyze public–private partnerships supporting the  transfer of academic research to the commercial sphere to generate economic and  social benefits. The program provides matching funds to program participants  who invest an equal amount in cash plus in-kind contributions. NS Nanotech Canada has started working with nano-LED researchers  at McGill including professor Songrui Zhao, who holds numerous patents and  is advancing the state of the art in molecular beam epitaxy  (MBE) and other foundational technologies designed to enable orders-of-magnitude  improvements in costs and efficiency over existing LEDs. “The I&P Partnerships Program will strengthen our  collaboration with McGill,” says David Laleyan, senior research scientist  at NS Nanotech Canada. “We are already hard at work with professor Zhao,  and this program helps accelerate the joint R&D efforts for submicron-scale  nano-LEDs.” 