Commercialization of 800V for EVs to play crucial role in growth strategy of OEMs As new energy vehicles and battery technology boom, charging and  battery swapping in the industry chain have become weak links for the  development of new energy vehicles. Inconvenient charging and short cruising range  have become sore points that plague every consumer buying electric vehicles. In this context, 800V high-voltage charging for new energy  vehicles has been a spotlight, notes the ‘800V High Voltage Platform Research  Report, 2023’ by Research In China. 2022 was the first year for the  development of 800V high-voltage platforms in China. In particular, a large  number of 800V high-voltage platform models will go on sale during 2023–2024.  In the current stage, 800V platforms are still facing a situation  of “loud thunder but small raindrops”. Insurance data show that insured  vehicles with 800V platforms in China were still fewer than 10,000 units  in 2022. The low cost performance and poor ultrafast charging experience  offered by 800V models are the major flaws criticized by consumers. The industry boom still requires lower cost of upstream materials  and systems, and the gradual deployment of downstream 480kW/500kW ultrafast-charging  piles to cover key use scenarios, so that 800V models can be pulled into  the market explosion node that is expected to come in about 2024, according to  the plans of large auto makers. Deployment of 800V ultra-fast charging: Due to the high construction cost of 480kW ultrafast-charging  piles, generally speaking, an ultrafast-charging station is equipped with just  one or two 480kW supercharging piles and several 240kW fast-charging piles, and  supports dynamic power distribution. Overall, according to the plans of auto makers,  it is conceivable that in late 2027 ownership of 800V high-voltage platform  models will reach 3 million units; the number of 800V supercharging  stations will be 15,000–20,000; the number of 480/500kW  supercharging piles will exceed 30,000. As well as charging piles, in the evolution of architecture from  400V to 800V, the implementation of vehicle engineering also remains very  complicated. It requires simultaneous introduction of an entire system spanning  semiconductor devices and battery modules to electric vehicles, charging piles,  and charging networks, and poses higher demands on reliability, size and  electrical performance of connectors. It also requires technology improvements  in mechanical, electrical and environmental performance. Leadrive Technology: in 2022, the first silicon carbide  (SiC)-based `three-in-one` electric drive system jointly developed by Leadrive  Technology and SAIC Volkswagen went into trial production and made a debut  at the Volkswagen IVET Innovation Technology Forum. Tested by SAIC  Volkswagen, this ‘three-in-one’ system equipped with Leadrive Technology’s  silicon carbide ECU can increase the cruising range of the ID.4X model by  at least 4.5%. Additionally, Leadrive and Schaeffler will co-develop electric drive  assembly products including an 800V SiC electric axle. Vitesco Technologies: the highly integrated electric drive  system product EMR4 is projected to be mass produced in China and supplied  to global customers in 2023. EMR4 will be spawned at Vitesco’s factory in  Tianjin Economic-Technological Development Area and delivered to auto-makers  both inside and outside China. BorgWarner: the new 800V SiC inverter adopts Viper’s patented  power module technology. The application of SiC power modules to 800V  platforms reduces the use of semiconductors and SiC materials. This product  will be mass produced and installed on vehicles between 2023 and 2024.  In new 800V architectures, the key to electric drive  technology is the use of ‘third-generation’ SiC/GaN semiconductor devices.  While bringing technical benefits to new energy vehicles, technology  iterations also pose many challenges to automotive semiconductors and the  entire supply chain. In the future, 800V high-voltage systems with SiC/GaN  as the core will usher in a period of large-scale development in automotive  electric drive systems, electronic control systems, on-board chargers  (OBCs), DC–DC, and off-board charging piles. In particular, silicon carbide is at the core of the  high-voltage platform strategy of OEMs. Although 800V is still growing at  present, the war for SiC production capacity has already started. OEMs and  tier-1 suppliers are competing to form strategic partnerships with suppliers of  SiC chips and modules or to set up joint ventures with them for the production  of SiC modules in order to lock in SiC chip capacity. On the other hand, the campaign for SiC cost reduction has  also been launched. At present, SiC power devices are extremely expensive.  In Tesla’s case, the value of SiC-based MOSFET per vehicle is about $1300; at its  recent annual investor day, Tesla announced progress in the development of  its second-generation power chip platform, mentioning a reduction of 75% in  silicon carbide device usage, which attracted a lot of attention in the market. Tesla’s confidence lies in the fact that the auto-maker has  independently developed a TPAK SiC MOSFET module and is deeply involved in  the chip definition and design. Each bare die in the TPAK can be purchased  from different chip vendors to establish a multi-supplier system (ST, ON Semiconductor,  etc). TPAK also allows for the application of cross-material platforms, e.g.  mixed use of IGBT/SiC MOSFETs/GaN HEMTs. Power devices based on SiC offer the benefits of high frequency,  high efficiency and small volume (70% or 80% smaller than IGBT power devices),  and have been seen in the Tesla Model 3. From the perspective of the value chain, substrates comprise more  than 45% of the cost of silicon carbide devices, and its quality also  directly affects the performance of epitaxy and the final product. The substrate  and epitaxy comprise almost 70% of the value, so cutting their cost will be the  main development direction of the SiC industry. The silicon carbide required  for high voltage (800V) for new energy vehicles is mainly conductive  substrate SiC crystal. The existing major manufacturers include Wolfspeed (formerly  Cree), II-VI, TankeBlue Semiconductor and SICC.  In terms of global SiC technology development, the SiC device  market is monopolized by large vendors such as STMicroelectronics, Infineon, Wolfspeed  and ROHM. Chinese vendors already have large-scale production capacity, and are  on a par with international developments. Their capacity planning and  production timescale are almost equal to their foreign peers.  Regarding the SiC substrate development level, 6-inch substrates  currently prevail in the SiC market, and the 8-inch SiC substrate is a  development priority globally. At present, only Wolfspeed has achieved the mass production  of 8-inch SiC. The Chinese company SEMISiC has produced 8-inch N-type SiC  polished wafers on a small scale in January 2022. Most international companies  plan the production of 8-inch SiC substrates during 2023. Gallium nitride (GaN) is largely used in consumer electronics  fields such as tablet PCs, TWS earbuds and notebook computer fast charging  (PD). Yet, as new energy vehicles thrive, electric vehicles become a  potential application market for GaN. In electric vehicles, GaN field-effect  transistors (FETs) are very applicable to AC–DC OBCs, high-voltage (HV) to low-voltage  (LV) DC–DC converters, and low-voltage DC–DC converters. In the field of electric vehicles, GaN and SiC technologies  complement each other and cover different voltage ranges. GaN devices are  suitable for tens of volts to hundreds of volts, and in medium- and low-voltage  applications (less than 1200V); their switching loss is three times less than  SiC in 650V application. SiC is more applicable to high voltages (several  thousand volts). Currently, the application of SiC devices in a 650V  environment is mostly to enable 1200V or higher voltage in electric vehicles. 