Bosch acquiring US chipmaker TSI, adding California plant to Reutlingen and Dresden fabs in Germany As part of expanding its semiconductor business into silicon carbide (SiC)  chip manufacturing, Robert Bosch GmbH  of Reutlingen, Germany plans to acquire TSI Semiconductors of  Roseville, CA, USA. As an application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC) foundry  with 250 staff, TSI currently mainly develops and produces large volumes of  chips on 200mm silicon wafers for applications in the mobility, telecoms,  energy, and life sciences sectors. In the next few years, Bosch intends to  invest more than $1.5bn in the Roseville site and convert the TSI manufacturing  facilities to silicon carbide (SiC) processes, targeting production of chips on  200mm wafers from 2026. Bosch hence aims to have significantly extended its global  portfolio of SiC chips by the end of 2030, as the global boom and ramp-up of  electro-mobility is resulting in huge demand, says Bosch. The full scope of the  planned investment will be heavily dependent on federal funding opportunities  available via the US CHIPS and Science Act as well as economic development  opportunities within the State of California. The transaction is subject to  regulatory approval.  Picture: TSI Semiconductors’ plant in  Roseville, California. “With the acquisition of TSI Semiconductors, we are  establishing manufacturing capacity for SiC chips in an important sales market  while also increasing our semiconductor manufacturing globally,” says  Dr Stefan Hartung, chairman of the Bosch board of management. “The  existing cleanroom facilities and expert personnel in Roseville will allow us  to manufacture SiC chips for electro-mobility on an even larger scale,” he  adds. “The location in Roseville has existed since 1984. Over nearly  40 years, the US company has built up vast expertise in semiconductor  production,” notes Bosch board member Dr Markus Heyn, chairman of the  Mobility Solutions business sector. “We will now be integrating this  expertise into the Bosch semiconductor manufacturing network,” he adds. “We are pleased to join a globally operating technology company with  extensive semiconductor expertise,” comments TSI’s CEO Oded Tal. “Our Roseville  location will be a significant addition to Bosch’s SiC chipmaking operations.” 