onsemi and ZEEKR sign long-term supply agreement for silicon carbide power devices Power semiconductor IC supplier onsemi of  Phoenix, AZ, USA has  announced a long-term supply agreement (LTSA) to provide its EliteSiC silicon carbide (SiC) power devices to increase the powertrain  efficiency of smart electric vehicles  (EVs) made by ZEEKR (the global premium electric mobility brand of  China-based Geely Holding Group). Adoption of the devices should result in  improved performance, faster charging speeds  and extended driving range. Picture:    The ZEEKR X  compact EV. ZEEKR began delivering its first product, ZEEKR 001, in October 2021, followed by the ZEEKR 009 MPV in early 2023. In April, the  100,000th ZEEKR car rolled off its manufacturing base in Ningbo, China. ZEEKR  plans to start delivering cars in Europe in fourth-quarter 2023. To support its expanding portfolio of high-performance EVs, ZEEKR  will adopt the M3E variant of onsemi’s 1200V EliteSiC MOSFET, which has  enhanced electrical and mechanical performance and reliability. The power devices deliver improved power and  thermal efficiency, which should reduce the size and weight of the traction  inverter and enhance the range of the automaker’s EVs. “ZEEKR will be able to offer electric vehicles  with improved performance and even lower carbon emissions,” says Andy An, CEO of ZEEKR Intelligent Technology.  “As a brand committed to sustainability, ZEEKR will continue to explore  different ways to accelerate the transition towards new energy vehicles.” Utilizing Geely’s Sustainable Experience  Architecture (SEA), ZEEKR develops in-house battery technologies, battery management systems, electric motor technologies and electric vehicle supply chain support. The new LTSA is expected to enable both firms to build a stronger  supply chain relationship to support  ZEEKR’s growth over the next decade. “A reliable supply chain  is critical to business success and, after significant investments in our SiC  end-to-end supply chain, onsemi can  offer this strategic value to customers,” says onsemi’s president & CEO  Hassane El-Khoury. “This agreement will help our continued ramp of SiC  operations, enabling us to offer industry-leading power devices that help our customers deploy the most efficient  and highest-performing EVs on the market.” 