POET Starlight launched for AI market POET Technologies Inc of Toronto, Ontario, Canada  — designer and developer of the POET Optical Interposer, photonic integrated  circuits (PICs) and light sources for the data-center, telecom and artificial  intelligence (AI) markets — has  launched POET Starlight, a packaged light source solution for AI applications. The firm has also entered into an agreement with Celestial AI of  Santa Clara, CA, USA,  creators of the Photonic Fabric, for the development and production of  POET Starlight packaged light sources  and has received an advanced purchase order  for initial production units. “POET’s Starlight chips and its technology roadmap are  complementary to our advanced silicon photonics  and system-in-package technologies,” notes Celestial AI’s co-founder &  chief operating officer Preet Virk. “We are pleased to continue our  collaboration with POET Technologies, building on its optical interposer  technology to enable us to meet our performance, scale and cost targets.” The POET Starlight products are packaged light engines  based on POET’s LightBar platform, which was demonstrated at March’s Optical Fiber Communication Conference (OFC 2023) in San Diego,  CA, USA. Chip developers are working to redesign the core of computer  architecture to incorporate light for communication between chips or to perform  complex computations, all in an effort to eliminate the bandwidth and  power-efficiency bottlenecks inherent in electronic devices. Each such chip  requires one or more light sources able to provide several frequencies of  light integrated into the fabric of the device. POET’s Starlight products integrate active components  like lasers and certain other passive optical and electrical components into  the optical interposer to provide a complete light source solution  that can be integrated on a host board and connected to chips and ASICs with  built-in silicon photonics. POET achieves its low-cost solution through the use  of features and benefits of the POET Optical Interposer platform and the  ‘semiconductorization’ of photonics fabrication processes. “External light sources for artificial intelligence applications  has been one of the key verticals for POET,” says chairman & CEO Dr Suresh  Venkatesan. “We are delighted to continue to work with Celestial AI to  provide a high-volume manufacturable solution for their optical interconnect  technology platform,” he adds. “The ability for POET to passively attach high-power  CW [continuous wave] lasers on its optical interposer at wafer scale  enables the use of single known-good laser chips and eliminates the need for  laser arrays, which can be cost prohibitive for high-volume applications. The  POET team has worked closely with Celestial AI to define a low-cost  packaging solution that is up to 75% lower in cost than competing solutions and  is highly scalable for the volumes that Celestial AI is projecting.” POET’s Starlight C-band and O-band LightBar products  incorporate monolithically integrated passive components like multiplexers,  demultiplexers, splitters, combiners and waveguides. Known-good high-power CW  lasers and monitor photodiodes are flip chipped and passively attached to the  optical interposer platform. POET expects to complete design verification  testing and reliability qualification of the Starlight engines by the  end of 2023 and start production in second-half 2024. The size of the AI chip  market is projected by Allied Market Research to reach $263bn by 2031. 