NUBURU gains patents for blue laser welding and multi-kilowatt blue lasers NUBURU Inc of Centennial, CO, USA — which  conducts research, development, design and manufacturing of high-power,  high-brightness industrial blue lasers — has received additional  patents that expand its intellectual property  portfolio, broadly covering blue lasers  for use in welding and other applications. “These new patents expand our broad patent estate around blue lasers,  particularly for welding copper and other metals,” says CEO & co-founder Dr Mark Zediker. “These patents also cover  technologies like multi-kilowatt-class blue lasers  that have significant advantages compared to infrared lasers available from  industry incumbents.” NUBURU believes that its intellectual property  provides strong protection to its blue laser  technology and processes. Despite the significant advantages and efficiencies  of blue lasers, major incumbents IPG Photonics,  Coherent, Lumentum and nLIGHT have not released an industrial blue laser, relying on infrared technology  instead, notes the firm. On 28 March, the US  Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) granted NUBURU’s patent for ‘Methods and  systems for welding copper and other metals using blue lasers’ (US Patent 11,612,957), which describes  NUBURU’s blue laser technology and  processes for welding multiple metal types and alloys including copper,  aluminium and stainless steel. The firm believes that this patent provides technology  and processes for more efficiently manufacturing batteries for electric vehicles (EV), cell phones, and other electronic devices. On 14 April, the European Patent Office (EPO) granted NUBURU’s  patent for ‘Multi KW Class Blue Laser  System” (European Patent EP 3704772). As explained in the patent,  “embodiments of the present inventions relate to a multi-kW-class blue  fiber-coupled laser systems used for materials processing  and laser welding applications, and  in particular wavelengths in the wavelength range  of about 400nm to about 495nm”. This unique beam combination  methodology results in a laser source  that is ideal for 3D printing  applications as well as welding copper and other materials for building  electric vehicles, cell phones, and other electronic products,  says NUBURU. As of end-March, NUBURU has 190+ granted and pending patent  applications worldwide. The granted patents and pending applications cover all  aspects of the firm’s technology and processes. NUBURU says that it continues  to prosecute the pending applications through to granted patents across  multiple geographies to further protect its technology and processes for use in  what it estimates to be a multi-billion-dollar serviceable addressable market  (SAM). 