Red InGaN LEDs for visible light communication Fudan University and Jiangxi Latticepower  Semiconductor Corp in China claim the first report  of red-emission micro-sized light-emitting diodes (micro-LEDs) on silicon  substrates for visible light communication [Xinyi Lu et al, Journal of Lightwave Technology, published  online 27 March 2023]. The team also studied the  wavelength/color shifts from red to green with increased current for various  sizes of micro-LED with a view to displays and multi-wavelength data  transmission. The researchers see potential deployment in  multi-color displays and high-speed visible light communication, especially for wearable products. Of course,  the use in displays would require careful management of pulsed operation to  compensate the lower light output power at low current injection relative to high current injection. The wavelength/color shifts to the bluer  part of the visible spectrum arise from effects that are not desired in other  application contexts such as band-filling and the quantum-confined Stark effect (QCSE). Band-filling refers to the filling of energy levels  as the current injection increases, creating a  larger energy drop for electrons recombining into  holes. The QCSE arises from electric fields due to charge polarization of the  chemical bonds in III-nitride materials, which arise both spontaneously and  from piezoelectric strain effects in heterostructures. The researchers used metal-organic chemical  vapor deposition on silicon (111) substrates to grow the indium gallium nitride (InGaN) epitaxial material  for the red LEDs (Figure 1). The active  region consisted of three InGaN quantum wells (QWs) targeting red emissions.  Figure 1: (a) Schematic diagram and (b)  cross-sectional transmission electron microscope (TEM) images of InGaN-based red LED epitaxial structure. Square-pixel LEDs were fabricated with  sides varying between 20μm  and 150μm. The  researchers classified the 150μm  device as a ‘mini-LED’, and the smaller ones as ‘micro-LEDs’. The fabrication began with deposition of a  30nm transparent conducting layer, consisting of indium tin oxide (ITO), for current spreading  from the p-electrode. The device mesas were formed by inductively coupled plasma reactive ion etching  (ICP-RIE). A 300nm plasma-enhance chemical vapor deposition (PECVD) of silicon dioxide was used for passivation. The n- and p-electrodes were  titanium/gold. 