ROHM producing SWIR devices in smallest size class for sensing applications in portable and wearable devices Japan’s ROHM has established mass-production technology for  short-wavelength infrared (SWIR) devices in the industry’s smallest class  1608-size (1.6mm x 0.8mm) for portable/wearable/hearable devices  requiring material detection.  SWIR is characterized by a longer wavelength than near-infrared  (NIR), providing greater permeability through different materials while being  less susceptible to sunlight, smoke and other particulate matter. The  technology is hence expected to expand the range of sensing substances such as  water/gas and glucose. However, until now most SWIR devices have been  through-hole package types for relatively large applications such as  communication equipment and industrial analyzers. There are therefore very few  surface-mount products on the market suitable for compact applications. As SWIR is used to detect the presence of substances and their  constituent components by taking advantage of characteristics of water, ice,  gases etc that absorb specific wavelengths, target applications include  light sources for blood oxygen saturation and blood glucose  measurement devices in the medical field and measuring the water and sugar  content of fruit and vegetables in the food industry. Adoption is also  anticipated in sensing applications through organic light-emitting diode  (OLED) panels in portable devices, and wearable/hearable devices to add health  monitoring and other novel functions. In response, ROHM has established mass-production technology for  compact 1608-size surface-mount SWIR products (light emitting/receiving) by  leveraging manufacturing technology cultivated through the mass production of  compound semiconductors such as visible and near-infrared LEDs. For the  light-emitting side, a lineup of ten LEDs is planned in varying package shapes  (molded/lens) and wavelengths (1050–1550nm).  On the light receiving side, four photodiode models will be offered in  different packages (1608-size/20125-size (2.0mm x 1.25mm)) and  photodetector block size.  Samples of SWIR products (light emitters/receivers) based on this  technology have been available since March. Going forward, ROHM aims to pursue  new areas for sensing by supporting a wider range of material detection in  compact applications. SWIR devices (light emitters/receivers) are now available in a  class-leading compact surface-mount package. The combination of small  light-receiving and -emitting products contributes not only to  space savings by reducing mounting area but also opens up new  possibilities for sensing in compact applications. 