Musco LED system featuring ams OSRAM LEDs illuminates Regensburg baseball stadium Performance details have been unveiled for OSCONIQ LEDs made by ams OSRAM GmbH of Premstätten, Austria and  Munich, Germany as part of a new field-of-play lighting system made by  Musco Lighting of Oskaloosa, IA, USA installed  at the Armin-Wolf-Arena baseball stadium in Regensburg, Germany. The stadium’s new floodlighting uses the Total Light Control—TLC for LED  system from Musco, fitted with OSCONIQ P 3737  LEDs from ams OSRAM, which provide  the 5700K light source for the TLC for LED  luminaires. Selected as a host stadium for the 2023 World Baseball Classic  Qualifiers, the Armin-Wolf-Arena was required to upgrade its field-of-play  lighting to meet lighting standards set forth by Major League Baseball (MLB). The floodlighting has transformed the stadium, increasing lux  levels by 85% on the field of play while reducing power consumption by 13%  compared with the previous lights, according to Musco. The lighting is said to  achieve extremely high consistency and uniformity across the field of play  while producing low levels of glare, and very little spillover light outside the perimeter of the  stadium. The new system achieves MLB infield and outfield lighting  requirements, and has enabled the Armin-Wolf-Arena to host matches at the  highest level of world baseball, including this year’s World Baseball Classic Qualifier. Musco’s TLC for LED technology has been installed at some of the  biggest and most iconic professional stadiums in the world. Musco’s selection  of the OSCONIQ P 3737 LEDs for its  LED system came after an exhaustive evaluation of their performance in a  demanding application mounted on top of a high mast. The Armin-Wolf stadium in Regensburg is ‘home turf’ for ams OSRAM due to a “large, key manufacturing location,” says  Peter Naegelein, the firm’s director product management  OS IL. “The decision of Musco to  choose the OSCONIQ P 3737 LEDs is a  testament to the excellent design and reliability of the OSCONIQ LEDs and the  outstanding quality of ams OSRAM’s  LED manufacturing operations,” he adds. 