OIPT to supply KAUST with hardware upgrades and ALE systems, complementing ALD UK-based Oxford Instruments Plasma Technology (OIPT) has  announced an agreement with the Saudi Arabia-based King Abdullah  University of Science and Technology (KAUST) Core Labs, a system of  multi-disciplinary and interconnected research laboratories. KAUST’s Core Labs and research infrastructure benefits from the  addition of two Oxford Instruments PlasmaPro100 Cobra  atomic layer etch (ALE) systems to add to its existing  Oxford Instruments FlexAL atomic layer deposition (ALD)  capability. With both ALE and ALD modules, it is reckoned that KAUST is now better  positioned to develop its technology research and bridge the gap between  academia and industry by enhancing projects like their research on Oxford  Instruments ALD equipment (the origin of interfacial charges plus highly  suppressed interface traps in GaN HEMTs). The agreement includes a substantial program of upgrades to OIPT  deposition and etch equipment, including FlexAL, IonFab and inductively coupled  plasma (ICP) etch systems, already installed at KAUST’s research laboratories.  The upgrade program includes the installation and ongoing support of X20  programmable logic controllers (PLCs), a hardware controller that enhances  process development by enabling the full range of Oxford Instruments  hardware capability. In addition, the modules will be updated with Oxford Instruments’  latest intuitive software control application PTIQ, which enables  sophisticated data logging and analysis for process diagnostics and  preventative maintenance tracking. To accelerate the researchers’ work and user  experience, KAUST Core Labs engineers will attend OIPT’s UK training  facility for an extensive and bespoke tool maintenance and ALE-systems training  program. “The agreement continues KAUST’s development of its  state-of-the-art facilities and technical expertise that attracts the world’s  best researchers and brightest students,” says Ken Kennedy, laboratory director  at KAUST Nanofabrication Core Lab. “This investment emphasises KAUST’s  collaboration between its faculty and shared facilities, supporting the Kingdom  in advanced scientific and technological education and research,” he adds. “This agreement is a great example of our ability to develop  long-term strategic partnerships with key customers in the global research and  development market, and support them with our extensive upgrade portfolio and  service solutions,” says Dean Furlong, quality & digital director of OIPT’s  Global Services. “This is a substantial investment from KAUST that will  enhance its reputation as an internationally recognized user facility, and  further support its cutting-edge ALD research with the addition of ALE  capability.” 