Infineon showcasing power semiconductors and wide-bandgap technologies at PCIM In booth #412 (Hall 7) at the  Power, Control and Intelligent Motion  (PCIM) Europe 2023 trade fair in Nuremberg (9–11 May), Infineon Technologies AG of Munich, Germany is showcasing how its latest solutions  in power semiconductors and wide-bandgap technologies provide answers to  the current challenges of green and digital transformation. Under the motto  ‘Driving decarbonization and digitalization. Together.’, the firm is giving  demonstrations, live TechTalks, and the opportunity to discuss design  challenges with experts. Alternatively, industry professionals can register for  the Infineon's virtual platform, available  around the clock from 27 April  onwards. Infineon’s  wide-bandgap (WBG) portfolio offers comprehensive options with high efficiency  and power density. Highlights include CoolGaN-based USB-C adapters and  chargers, as well as solutions for e-mobility with CoolGaN SG HEMTs,  EiceDRIVER gate driver ICs and XENSIV sensors. New chip technologies  including HybridPACK Drive CoolSiC G2 simplify automotive electrification,  and packaging innovations for silicon, SiC and GaN power technologies with  topside cooling (TSC) enable pushing the limits of efficiency and power density  in high-performance industrial and automotive applications. With power  semiconductors that improve the efficiency and miniaturization of wind and  photovoltaic plants, Infineon says that it not only supports the most  climate-friendly forms of energy generation but also promotes the  competitiveness of renewable energies. Feasible storage solutions are also  enabled by the firm’s power portfolio, which is an important factor in their  economic viability. Infineon's  power solutions for traction inverters, on-board chargers, DC–DC  converters and battery management systems support the rapid expansion of  e-mobility and e-transport along with the corresponding charging  infrastructure. One highlight is a modular 50kW CoolSiC reference design  for fast DC charging systems for electric vehicles. In addition to  Infineon’s complete range of traction inverters, charging solutions such as the  first wall-mounted DC charger, the alpitronic HYC50 bi-directional 50kW  charging station, is also being presented at the PCIM booth. In addition to  the demonstrations, Infineon has organized a comprehensive series of nine  TechTalks at its booth, spanning a wide range of topics including solid-state  circuit breakers, energy storage systems, EV charging, heat pumps,  hydrogen production, solar and traction inverters as well as CoolSiC and  CoolGaN solutions. In addition, Infineon experts are participating in the PCIM  conference and poster sessions. At the PCIM Europe 2023 tradeshow, Infineon is showcasing  product-to-system solutions for applications that will power the world and  shape the future. Company representatives are also giving several presentations  at the accompanying PCIM Conference and Industry & E-Mobility Forum with  live and on-demand video presentations, followed by discussions with the  speakers. 