TRUMPF showcasing industrial-grade VCSEL lasers for precise optical sensing In booth 1-156 at Sensor+Test  2023 in Nuremberg (9–11  May), TRUMPF  Photonic Components GmbH of Ulm, Germany (part of the TRUMPF Group)  – which makes vertical-cavity surface-emitting lasers (VCSELs) and photodiodes  for the consumer electronics, datacoms, industrial sensing, heating  and automotive markets – is giving two live demonstrations to  showcase the performance of its single-mode VCSEL solutions. The VCSEL-based sensing  components are said to be compact and robust laser sources,  supporting industrial optical sensing systems. “Many industrial  applications benefit from the continuous innovations in VCSEL technology,” says  Ralph Gudde, VP of marketing & sales. “Our approach is to make our VCSEL  solutions more rugged and smarter by integrating additional functionalities and,  in so doing, to address the high demands of our customers and to enable new  applications.” One live demonstration highlights  the capabilities for gas sensing in the 760–766nm  wavelength range. The second shows the precise measurement of particulate matter  concentration in the air. The solutions are based on innovative technology such  as VCSELs with integrated photodiodes (ViP). These not only emit light, but  also detect back-scattered light and therefore allow the self-mixing  interference measurement method (SMI). Applications such as optical encoders  for speed and distance measurements or particle sensors benefit  from this technology. TRUMPF provides customers with the option to assess the  technical capabilities of the SMI and ViP technology for industrial sensing  applications by offering an evaluation board. Whether oxygen sensing in  laboratory and industrial environments, speed and distance measurements in  industrial process lines or particulate matter  measurements in IoT and indoor applications, all kinds of optical sensor  systems rely on VCSEL as laser sources, as they are highly efficient and  insensitive to dirt and sunlight, notes TRUMPF. Additionally, the contactless  measurement solution is maintenance-free, which supports applications in harsh  industrial environments. Easy and safe handling is supported by TRUMPF not only  in the offering of components or VCSEL in TO cans but also in further customization  with the integration of driver electronics or special optics. This is enabled  by in-house assembly processes. Single-mode VCSEL light sources are  said to offer excellent and reliable performance and are available with  wavelengths ranging from 760nm to 940nm. For even higher illumination quality,  TRUMPF offers solutions with polarization control. Later in 2023, TRUMPF will  expand its portfolio of polarized VCSELs and release a large  polarization-controlled, single-emitter, single-mode VCSEL component with 2mW  output power. This will serve applications like industrial optical encoders  and spectroscopy. Evaluation samples will be available from June onwards, and  mass production is scheduled for the end of 2023. 