Salience hires former Imagination Technologies chief product officer Silicon photonics company Salience Labs of Oxford, UK has  appointed semiconductor industry veteran Chris Porthouse as chief  product officer. Spun out from the University of Oxford  and Germany’s Münster University in 2021, Salience has developed an ultra-high-speed,  super-low-latency multi-chip processor that packages a novel photonics chip  with standard electronics to accelerate exponential advances in AI and other  compute-intensive applications. Porthouse has a track record of growing and transforming  businesses, most recently as CPO for Imagination Technologies and previously as  VP & general manager at Arm. At Imagination he delivered the annual  five-year strategy and business plan, and the roadmap of GPU, AI and CPU  products licensed to mobile, consumer, data-center and automotive customers  worldwide. At Arm, Porthouse delivered significant growth in Mali GPU, helping  win first deals worldwide and latterly in cloud services. As CPO, Porthouse will lead Salience Labs’ product strategy and  product-market fit, as the business scales following its $11.5m seed funding  round in 2022. The firm is funded by investors including Cambridge Innovation  Capital, Oxford Sciences Enterprises, Oxford Investment Consultants, Silicon  Catalyst, Deeptech Labs and leaders from the global semiconductor industry  including Dialog Semiconductor’s former CEO Jalal Bagherli and the Goh Family  Office in Singapore. “Salience Labs will bring high-speed, low-latency, efficient  photonics compute to market at scale,” says Porthouse. “I am excited to join  this phenomenally talented team as we enter a new phase of growth and leverage  our differentiated photonics multi-chip architecture to enable applications  beyond the horizon of the established CMOS roadmap,” he adds. “Chris has over 25 years’ experience in the semiconductor  industry across a range of markets,” notes co-founder & CEO Vaysh Kewada.  “His proven leadership and experience in developing novel compute solutions  that solve customer problems will enable us to usher in a new era of  ultra-high-speed, super-low-latency processing where supercompute applications  become ubiquitous”. 