Multi-year deal signed for ST to supply silicon carbide devices to ZF STMicroelectronics of Geneva, Switzerland has signed a  multi-year contract to supply a volume of double-digit millions of silicon carbide devices  that will be integrated into the new modular inverter architecture of Germany-based ZF Friedrichshafen AG  (one of the world’s largest suppliers to the automotive industry) that is going into  series production in 2025. ZF aims to leverage ST’s vertically integrated  silicon carbide  manufacturing in Europe and Asia to secure customer orders in electro-mobility. “With this strategically important step, we are strengthening our  supply chain to be able to securely  supply our customers,” says Stephan von Schuckmann,  member of ZF’s board of management responsible for electro-mobility as well as  materials management. “Our order book in electro-mobility until 2030 now  amounts to more than €30bn. For this  volume, we need several reliable suppliers for silicon carbide devices,” he adds. “In STMicroelectronics, we now  have a supplier whose experience with complex systems meets our requirements  and who, above all, can produce the devices in exceptionally high quality and  at the required quantities.” With this agreement, ZF has gained a supplier for silicon carbide technology in addition to ZF’s  existing partnership agreement on silicon carbide  technology announced in February with Wolfspeed. “As a vertically integrated company, we are investing heavily to  expand capacity and develop our silicon carbide  supply chain to support our global  and European customer base across  automotive and industrial sectors, as they pursue electrification and  decarbonization targets,” says Marco Monti, president of ST’s Automotive and  Discrete Group. “The key to success in electric vehicle  technology is greater scalability and modularity with increased efficiency,  peak power and affordability,” he  adds. “Our silicon carbide  technologies help deliver these benefits and we are proud to work with ZF, a  leading automotive supplier for electrification, to help them differentiate and  optimize the performance of their inverters.” ST will manufacture the SiC chips at its production fabs in Italy  and Singapore with packaging of the chips into STPAK, an advanced package, and  testing at its back-end facilities in Morocco and China. ST will supply ZF from 2025 with double-digit millions of  third-generation silicon carbide  MOSFET devices. ZF can connect a variable number of such devices together to  match customers’ performance requirements without changing the design of the  inverter. Among other things, ZF will use the technology in inverters for  vehicles of a European car manufacturer whose production start is planned for  2025. 