ams OSRAM adds 905nm edge-emitting laser with low-cost plastic package for consumer and industry applications ams OSRAM GmbH of Premstätten, Austria  and Munich, Germany has added a higher-performance  infrared laser targeting cost-conscious consumer and other applications with  the introduction of a 75W edge-emitting laser in a cost-effective radial plastic  package. The firm says that the SPL PL90AT03’s high peak  output power and narrow 110µm aperture  result in superior performance in long-distance ranging applications and easier  optical integration. The new  edge-emitting laser diode’s low-cost plastic package is suitable for use in  high-volume applications. Featuring the same footprint as the previous  generation of SPL PL90 series laser diodes,  the SPL PL90AT03 is said to provide  an easy upgrade to higher efficiency, due to its state-of-the-art chip technology.  It also produces a narrower emission width  and enables easier optical design because of the device’s 50% smaller aperture  versus its predecessor. The  single-channel SPL PL90AT03 features ams OSRAM  multi-junction technology, consisting of three vertically stacked emitters in a  single laser die mounted inside a  radial plastic package. This technology enables the laser to produce optical  peak output power in a 30ns pulse of  75W at the device’s maximum forward current  of 25A. The laser diode can produce short laser pulses  ranging from a few ns to 100ns. Available now,  the SPL PL90AT03 pulsed laser features a peak wavelength of 905nm and a  spectral bandwidth (FWHM) of 5nm. Beam divergence is just 12° (parallel) x 25° (perpendicular), enabling efficient beam shaping with its small 110µm aperture. The high  optical power output in a narrow emission area makes the SPL PL90AT03 suitable for ranging and  distance-measurement applications that operate over long distance, such as  robots, drones, as well as home and factory automation equipment. In  time-of-flight (ToF) sensing and LiDAR applications, the high performance of  the SPL PL90AT03 enables the  production of more precise and accurate depth maps  for 3D optical sensing and  simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) systems.  “The growing  ams OSRAM portfolio of  high-performance edge-emitting IR lasers now includes a new option for  customers that need a low-cost package,” says Jouni Riihimaeki, product marketing manager for industrial lasers.  “The SPL PL90AT03 features the  narrow aperture and high output power  of other edge-emitting lasers in the family, but with a radial plastic package  that is ideal for high-volume applications.” 