New Origin secures €6m PhotonDelta funding to create independent photonic chip foundry New Origin of  Enschede, the Netherlands,  which was spun out of the MESA+ NanoLab as a subsidiary of University of Twente Holding, has secured €6m in  funding from integrated photonics industry  accelerator PhotonDelta – a cross-border ecosystem of photonic chip  technology organizations. The capital will be used to create the Netherland’s first  independent photonic chips foundry producing silicon nitride chips. The funding is part of the contribution  that the Province of Overijssel has made available to PhotonDelta for a  national photonics program. New Origin says that its foundry will enable companies to produce  their own photonic chips, overcoming a hurdle for the photonics industry by  substantially reducing costs while also increasing the availability of photonic  chips. Applications include data communications,  autonomous vehicles (AVs),  food production, medical  equipment, and aviation. PhotonDelta’s investment in New Origin is the latest step in its  goal to create a world-leading photonics industry in the Netherlands. Last  year, PhotonDelta secured €1.1bn in public and private investment to scale up  production, build 200 startups, create new applications for photonic chips, and  develop infrastructure and talent. So far, PhotonDelta has invested in  companies including Scantinel Photonics, Smart Photonics, LioniX International,  Quix Quantum and EFFECT  Photonics. PhotonDelta has, along with a consortium of investors, invested  €335m into photonics companies in total. New Origin believes that the insights gained from the new foundry  will open the door to the large-scale production facilities that will be needed  to meet future demand. “We already have a strong cluster in the region, united in  Chiptech Twente, which we can boost considerably this way,” says professor Guus  Rijnders, scientific director  of MESA+. “Many companies want to experiment with or integrate photonics into  their products, however this can be very difficult due to the cost and  complexity of producing chips. Our foundry will significantly lower the bar to  entry, facilitating more innovation and help the European photonics industry to  grow,” he adds. “New Origin’s foundry is going to play an important role in  building Europe’s photonic chip  industry,” believes PhotonDelta’s CEO Ewit Roos. “Not only will it help to meet  existing demand for chips, it will also gather invaluable insights into how we  can create large-scale production facilities. This is a vital step in both  making Europe less dependent on other regions for chip technology and unlocking  the full potential of integrated photonics,” he adds. “We can be proud of the strong cluster of companies and knowledge  institutions in our province that continue to invest together in the future of  European chip technology,” states Eddy van Hijum, Deputy Economy, Finance and Europe Minister at the  Province of Overijssel. “Examples include the earlier launch of the Chips Act and now this production  facility.” 