Wise-integration and Powernet team on digitally controlled, compact, energy-efficient GaN power supply systems Wise-integration of  Meylan, France, which was founded in 2020 and designs and develops gallium nitride (GaN) integrated circuits and digital-control technologies for power supplies,  and power supply maker Powernet of Seoul, South Korea, have agreed to  build compact and energy-efficient technology for power supply  applications that are currently limited to analog control. The  memorandum of understanding addresses the needs of OEMs that require compact  digitally controlled power supply  systems for faster, smaller  and more energy-efficient electronic equipment in products  ranging from USB PD fast chargers to  monitors, TV sets  and electric vehicles. The system will combine Wise-integration’s  WiseWare digital  controller and Wisegan (a 650V  enhancement-mode GaN-on-silicon IC for power applications ranging from 30W to  3kW) with Powernet’s switched-mode power supply (SMPS) technology that  efficiently converts electrical power.  “We expect our collaboration to be the  start of a new era in the power-supply industry by combining Powernet’s  well-established experience in productizing power supplies and Wise-integration’s GaN IC and  digital-control technologies,” says  Powernet’s CEO Lee Don Ju. “This combination will deliver a much higher level of energy efficiency to  mass-market products, while reducing their environmental impact,” he adds. “This partnership, guided by our long-term  business and development roadmap, will bring Wise-integration’s unique GaN IC  and digital-control technologies to global markets and enable Powernet to  increase the power density and reduce the size of its SMPS products,” says  Wise-integration’s CEO Thierry Bouchet. “We will jointly deliver the high level  of compactness and superior performance required for the mass-market  applications.” Wise-integration  claims to be the first company to bring digital control to the power supply market,  where previously only analog controls were available. Original design  manufacturers (ODM) such as Powernet are trying to meet growing demands from  original equipment manufacturers (OEM), which require increasingly small and  ultra-efficient power supplies  for their future product lines.  GaN is seen as a key material for delivering these features, but it is very  difficult for power supply  makers to go above switching frequencies of 300kHz with analog devices. Composed  of a standard MCU 32-bit-based controller and running the company’s proprietary  firmware, WiseWare manages the WiseGan devices and controls the power supply.  Because fewer components are required than in analog controllers and thanks to  high running frequency, the new power electronic architecture reduces weight and volume of  standard solutions by 30% and significantly reduces production costs. 