Navitas and realme launch first 240W ultra-fast-charging phone at MWC Gallium nitride (GaN) power IC and  silicon carbide (SiC) technology firm Navitas Semiconductor of Torrance,  CA, USA says that its GaNFast  technology has been adopted for the ‘in-box’ 240W ultra-fast charger  provided with the recently announced realme GT3 smartphone. Launched at Mobile World Congress (MWC) Barcelona 2023 at the end  of February, realme’s GT3 is a new Android device and said to be the first  smartphone to offer the power of 240W charging. The phone has a  Snapdragon 8+ Gen 1 chipset, features a 6.74-inch 10-bit AMOLED  screen with a 144Hz refresh rate, and includes a customizable rear  RGB LED rectangle that supports 25 colors. The dual-port SUPERVOOC fast charger included with the GT3 is  fully certified by TÜV Rheinland and built around two Navitas NV6138  GaN power ICs in critical-conduction-mode  (CRM) power-factor correction  (PFC) and high-frequency, quasi-resonant (HFQR) flyback  topologies. With a form factor of only  57mm x 58mm x 30mm (99cc) and weighing just 173g, the  charger has a power density of 2.42W/cc and can fully charge the GT3’s  4600mAh battery in just 9 minutes and 30 seconds. A charge of 50% is  possible in as little as 4 minutes, while a quick-shot 30 second  charge delivers 2 hours of talk-time. GaNFast power ICs integrate a high-performance GaN FET  with GaN gate-drive to achieve high-frequency, high-efficiency operation.  Additional GaNSense technology enables real-time, accurate sensing of voltage,  current and temperature with autonomous control. Loss-less current sensing  eliminates external current-sensing resistors and hot-spots, while increasing  system efficiency. “With the GT3 we have eliminated battery anxiety by providing the  world’s most powerful smartphone-charging solution that delivers the maximum  power that USB Type-C will support,” says Chase Xu, realme vice president and  president of realme global marketing. “Navitas GaNFast ICs featuring  GaNSense technology are the key to realizing this world’s first,” he adds. 