POET reports highlights of Q4/2022 For fourth-quarter 2022, POET  Technologies Inc of Toronto, Ontario, Canada — designer and developer of  the POET Optical Interposer, photonic integrated circuits (PICs) and  light sources for the data-center, telecom and  artificial intelligence (AI) markets — has reported non-recurring  engineering revenue (NRE) of $200,000 compared with $233,000 last quarter and  $nil a year ago. In 2022, POET provided NRE contract services to multiple  customers, one of which continued to contract services from the prior year. The  revenue relates to unique projects that are being addressed utilizing the  capabilities of the POET Optical Interposer. Net loss has risen further, from $3.7m ($0.10 per share) a year  ago and $4m ($0.11 per share) last quarter to $6.3m ($0.17 per share). This  included R&D costs of $2.7m, up from $2m a year ago and $1.9m last quarter.  The firm notes that fluctuations in R&D costs for a company of this size  and this stage of growth is expected on a period-over-period basis as it  transitions from technology development to product development. Cash flow from operating activities was –$2.7m,  compared with –$3.2m a year ago and –$2.5m  last quarter. During the quarter, POET: “The company’s effort during the fourth quarter has been well  rewarded in the form of several pivotal announcements in early 2023,” notes  chairman & CEO Dr Suresh Venkatesan. “In January, we released to production  four optical engines, marking a  significant commercialization milestone for both POET and Super Photonics. Having recently completed  product design verification and reliability testing on these optical engines, we are now working closely with  multiple customers on the internal qualifications for their end customers,” he adds. “We were also pleased to announce POET’s optical engines enabling ADVA’s unique MicroMux  Quattro pluggable device. The opportunity to work with ADVA serves to further  validate the company’s optical engines.  As additional evidence of our progress, in February we announced our  partnership with Luxshare Technology, which is focused on leveraging POET’s  highly integrated Infinity chiplet platform to expand its 400G and 800G  pluggable transceiver solutions for the data-center market. Also notable was  the signing of key supplier arrangements in the fourth quarter with Lumentum  Holdings for its directly modulated lasers,” he adds. “In conjunction with OFC, we also showcased our POET Infinity  chiplet-based transmitter platform for 400G, 800G and 1.6T pluggable  transceivers and co-packaged optics solutions. Our team was extremely pleased  with the high level of interest and engagement at OFC, which we anticipate to  lead to expanded product sampling and customer qualifications in the coming  quarters,” continues Venkatesan. “POET is increasingly in a predominant  position to become a leading optical engine  supplier at advanced data rates, as  we continue preparations to ramp volume production in second-half 2023,” he believes.  “Additionally, we are making important advancements on our targeted products  for AI-ML applications at an ideal time as market demand rapidly expands for  new scalable, cost-effective solutions.” 