Aehr reports record quarterly order bookings For its fiscal third-quarter 2023 (ended 28 February), semiconductor  production test and reliability qualification equipment supplier Aehr  Test Systems of Fremont, CA, USA has reported revenue of $17.2m, up  13% on $15.3m a year ago. On a non-GAAP basis, net income  has grown from $3.1m ($0.11 per diluted share) a year ago and $4.5m ($0.16 per  diluted share) last quarter to $4.7m ($0.16 per diluted share). Order bookings were a record $33.3m. Order backlog (as of end-February)  was $31.6m. Effective backlog (including all orders received since the end of  fiscal Q3) is $41m. Total bookings for fiscal 2023 to date (including over $9m  in bookings received in March) amount to $72.5m. “Our momentum in silicon carbide  wafer-level burn-in continues to grow,” notes president & CEO Gayn Erickson.  “During the quarter, our second major silicon carbide semiconductor  customer moved from an initial FOX-NP dual-wafer system for engineering and  qualification to purchasing their first production FOX-XP multi-wafer test  & burn-in systems including our new high-voltage option with high-voltage  arc suppression technology. These systems will be upgraded to include our  new fully integrated and automated WaferPak Aligner that we are beginning  shipments of this quarter. Last week, we announced a follow-on order from this  customer for production quantities of our WaferPak full-wafer Contactors that  will be used with these systems. We believe that this major silicon carbide  customer will purchase a large number of our FOX-XP systems to meet their  publicly announced significant increase in planned capacity and revenue growth  over the next several years and through the end of the decade,” he adds. “In addition, our lead silicon carbide customer continued to  ramp up their production and their use of our FOX-XP production systems and  WaferPak Contactors. During the quarter, we received a $25m order for a  significant number of additional FOX-XP wafer-level test & burn-in systems  scheduled to ship over the next 6–7 months  to meet their increased capacity needs for producing silicon carbide  devices for electric vehicles, chargers and electrification  infrastructure. Earlier this month, we also announced a $6.7m follow-on order  for WaferPaks from the same customer, representing about half of the total  WaferPak full-wafer Contactors needed for these FOX-XP systems that each have  the capacity to test & burn-in 18 full wafers of devices at a time,” Erickson continues. “We also continue to make great progress with our previously  announced benchmarks and engagements with prospective new customers. We  continue to work closely with one of the largest silicon carbide players  in the world on a large wafer-level benchmark and qualification… This large  wafer-level benchmark and qualification continues toward success as the silicon carbide  supplier finishes their internal processes to complete the qualification. As  with our other large silicon carbide customers, we expect this silicon carbide  supplier to require significant capacity of wafer-level test & burn-in  systems to meet the fast-growing demand for silicon carbide devices and  electric vehicles over the next decade.” “We also had a very productive quarter in terms of new customer  engagements, which has continued into this quarter,” notes Erickson.  “With essentially all Covid-related restrictions behind us throughout the  world, our customer-facing meetings and our progress on new customer  opportunities have grown substantially. Since last quarter’s conference call,  we have added commitments from three additional companies currently making  silicon carbide to move forward with full-wafer level evaluations and/or  directly to purchase our systems.” “In addition to our momentum in silicon carbide, we are also  now engaged with several gallium nitride semiconductor suppliers ranging  from radio frequency (RF) to power devices,” says Erickson.  “Since our last call, we also received a commitment from a very large  multi-national semiconductor supplier to move forward with a full-wafer-level  evaluation of gallium nitride devices. This evaluation includes our new  high-voltage option for doing the critical high-temperature reverse bias (HTRB)  stress test needed for gallium nitride MOSFETs and amplifiers. We  believe gallium nitride will be a significant market, driven by some very  high-volume applications such as RF amplifiers, consumer electronic  power converters and chargers, solar power inverters, and charger and  converter applications in standard and electric vehicles. Feedback from  companies has been that several of these applications will require production  burn-in to meet the applications’ critical quality and reliability needs. With  our proven FOX-XP wafer-level burn-in solution and its cost-effective ability  to test thousands of devices in parallel and up to nine wafers at a time with  high-voltage capability, we believe we are well positioned to capitalize on  this opportunity and believe gallium nitride can expand our total  addressable market in a meaningful way,” he adds. “We also continue to be enthusiastic about the silicon photonics  market, especially as it looks to expand its use beyond fiber-optic  transceivers to become an embedded application that integrates fiber-optic  technology into the chipsets. Multiple market leaders have publicly discussed  their investments to integrate silicon photonics transceivers into their  microprocessors, graphics processors, and chipsets. While we believe this  transition is still several years out, we also believe the silicon photonics  test & burn-in market can become significant and could grow to be as large  or larger than the silicon carbide market later in this decade,” says Erickson. “We are very encouraged by the continued positive momentum and  expanding growth opportunities we see with our current and prospective  customers.” For fiscal 2023 (to end-May), Aehr reiterates its prior guidance  for revenue of at least $60–70m, up 18–38% year-on-year, with  strong profit margins similar to fiscal 2022. “We remain confident that our bookings will grow faster than  revenue this fiscal year as the ramp in demand for silicon carbide and  electric vehicles increases, setting us up with strong momentum heading  into our fiscal 2024 that begins in June,” says Erickson. During the quarter Aehr received gross proceeds totaling $7.3m on  the sale of 208,917 shares at an average price of $34.78 per share. This leaves  $17.7m available under its previously announced offer to sell up to $25m of its  common stock on the open market via an At-The-Market (ATM) offering. Under  the terms of the ATM equity distribution agreement, the firm may not sell  shares during its closed trading windows when it is deemed that the company may  be in possession of material non-public information. The firm only plans to  sell shares against the ATM during open trading windows and when it believes it  would provide the best source of capital with minimal dilution to existing  shareholders. 