Luminus launches Gen 2 CCT tunable COB LEDs Luminus Devices Inc of Sunnyvale, CA,  USA – which designs and makes LEDs and solid-state technology (SST) light sources  for illumination markets – has expanded its chip-on-board portfolio with  the introduction of Gen 2 CCT tunable COBs. These dynamic COBs feature two independent channels with 90+ CRI  (color rendering index) warm and cool white engineered in a multi-stripe  design for excellent color mixing and high flux density for  directional lighting. Customers can easily achieve system beam angles from  10 degrees to 40 degrees using standard secondary optics to deliver  uniform color and quality of light. With a correlated color temperature (CCT)  range of 6500–2700K and consistent white light  <3SDCM (standard deviation of color matching),  these COBs are suitable for both commercial and residential applications  including human-centric lighting, museum and high-end retail, hospitality  and circadian lighting. To enable a smooth transition from Gen 1 to Gen 2,  Luminus has kept the same footprint and thus enabled customers to use their  existing ecosystem. New customers also have a large ecosystem of optics,  holders and connectors to choose from, since these products use the  industry-standard 12mm x 15mm and 20mm x 24mm footprints,  which have been common for two-channel COB over many years. Included in that  ecosystem is the upcoming Cuvee Systems two-channel driver, which is  engineered to support Luminus’ dynamic COBs with two 0-10V inputs and is  available from Luminus’ sales channels. Luminus also plans to grow the Gen 2  portfolio over the coming quarters to include other CCT ranges, Salud  high-melanopic spectrums, larger LES (light-emitting  surface) sizes, and dim-to-warm options. “Luminaire makers and lighting specifiers are excited about the  industry-leading efficacy and flux density of these Gen 2 products,  which meet the emerging demand for tunable CCTs to provide healthy lighting  environments with tones that can change with the time of day or season,” says Tom  Jory, VP, illumination marketing. “The quality of light is equally  impressive, as narrow beams can now be achieved with smoother color mixing  for a seamless dynamic directional lighting solution.” The new product line is now available through Luminus’ authorized  distributors. 