Welsh Government to expand Newport’s compound semiconductor cluster Following a  trade mission to California’s Silicon Valley  last week, the Welsh Government’s Economy Minister  Vaughan Gething says that it is progressing with plans to expand the compound semiconductor  cluster in Newport, South Wales. The Welsh  Government is working with Silicon Valley-based  semiconductor  equipment maker KLA Corp’s  SPTS division – which provides wafer processing  solutions to semiconductor and microelectronic device manufacturers – to  support its plans to expand its operations in Newport as part of an already  announced $100m investment. The firm,  which currently employs over 550 people in the city, is developing its new base  at Newport’s Celtic Lakes,  which is home to a cluster of companies including Vantage (Europe’s largest  data center),  epiwafer and substrate maker IQE plc, and the Compound Semiconductor  Applications Catapult.  Picture: 
  Welsh Government Economy Minister  Vaughan Gething at KLA. Gething met  the chief executive and other members of KLA’s executive team during the trade visit  to Silicon Valley, where he reiterated  the Welsh Government’s commitment to the sector. The Welsh  Government’s plans include work to upgrade infrastructure on the Celtic Lakes  site, skills development to ensure that a continued pipeline of talented staff  is available to take up new jobs in the sector, and to develop local supply chains  – helping to ensure that other local companies benefit. Following the  trade visit, the Welsh Government is calling on the UK Government to prove its  commitment with a fully funded plan for the future of the semiconductor sector  that drives up growth, reduces consumer costs and strengthens security at home. The Economy Minister  warned that the UK is falling behind the ambitious mission set in the USA,  which is a national priority for the Biden Administration. “We are serious about backing a semiconductor sector that will drive up  growth, create jobs and lower costs for consumers,” says Gething. “Wales is a global player in the industry that deserves the backing  of UK plc  as a whole. Newport’s compound semiconductor and technology  cluster supports hundreds of well-paid jobs in an industry that powers the  technologies people across the globe rely on to live their lives,” he adds.  “During my visit to California’s Silicon Valley, I promoted Wales’ reputation  as a nation with a thriving semiconductor cluster and our determination to keep  it that way. The Welsh Government is now progressing plans at pace to allow KLA  to expand its operations in Newport, which we expect to unlock hundreds of new  jobs – supporting our ambition to create new green jobs in the industries of  the future.” Gething is  calling on the new UK Government Department for Science, Innovation and  Technology to publish a long-awaited comprehensive and fully funded  semiconductor strategy to support the sector, and to protect Welsh and British  jobs. “It’s time for the UK Government  to get on the pitch with a plan that matches the commitment of our global  partners,” he stresses. “The new Secretary of State for Science, Innovation and  Technology has a great opportunity to bring forward some good news and much  needed certainty for the industry by publishing a new strategy that’s fit for  the future. We are ready to work in partnership to make this happen.” 