Wolfspeed’s Durham HQ hosts first stop on Biden’s ‘Invest in America’ tour At its headquarters in Durham, NC,  USA, Wolfspeed Inc — which makes silicon carbide materials as well as  silicon carbide (SiC) and gallium nitride (GaN) power-switching & RF  semiconductor devices — hosted the first stop of US President  Joe Biden’s ‘Invest in America’ tour, in which he highlighted  initiatives designed to boost US manufacturing, rebuild the nation’s  infrastructure and strengthen supply chains. US Secretary of Commerce Gina  Raimondo and North Carolina Governor Roy Cooper were also in attendance at  the event.  Picture: From left to right: Wolfspeed’s CEO Gregg  Lowe; President Joe Biden; and North Carolina Governor Roy  Cooper. As a US company  at the forefront of the transition from silicon to silicon carbide to  enhance technology efficiency and energy savings, Wolfspeed believes that  initiatives like the CHIPS & Science Act that are investing in and  advancing the semiconductor industry will help to propel the transition to  electric vehicles, the move to faster 5G networks, the evolution of  renewable energy and energy storage, and the advancement of industrial  applications. “Silicon carbide  is at the heart of what we do — it’s essential to accelerating the adoption of EVs,  delivering energy savings to consumers, and meeting global  emission reduction targets,” notes Wolfspeed’s president & CEO Gregg  Lowe. “Wolfspeed is proud to play a critical role in fulfilling the objectives  of the CHIPS & Science Act and the Inflation Reduction Act, and to  reinforce US leadership in the energy transition and the semiconductor  industry.” At its  headquarters in Durham, NC, Wolfspeed currently produces more than 60% of the  world’s silicon carbide materials. However, the firm is engaged in a  $6.5bn capacity expansion effort to dramatically increase production. This  includes the opening of its 200mm Mohawk Valley device fab in Marcy, NY in  April 2022, and construction of The John Palmour Manufacturing Center  for Silicon Carbide, a 445-acre SiC materials facility in  North Carolina, which will expand the firm’s existing materials capacity  by more than 10x. Phase-one construction for the materials facility is expected  to be completed in 2024. In February, Wolfspeed also announced plans to build a  highly automated 200mm SiC fab in Saarland, Germany. 