Wolfspeed and NC A&T to establish joint silicon carbide R&D facility At an event  attended by US President Joe Biden, it was announced that Wolfspeed Inc of Durham, NC, USA – which makes  silicon carbide materials as well as silicon carbide (SiC) and  gallium nitride (GaN) power-switching & RF semiconductor devices – and  North Carolina Agricultural and  Technical State University (America’s  leading historically Black college or university) are to apply for CHIPS and  Science Act funding to build a new R&D facility on the North Carolina A&T campus, focused on SiC  to support the next generation of compound semiconductors.  Wolfspeed and A&T intend to submit the project for federal investment as  part of the CHIPS and Science Act when the Notice of Funding Opportunity for R&D facilities is  released this fall. “Wolfspeed has  been working with North Carolina  A&T to develop a workforce of the future, and we are excited to expand that  partnership to develop the technology of the future,” says Wolfspeed’s  president & CEO Gregg Lowe. “The R&D facility will enable the next  generation of innovators to explore new processes, applications and  breakthrough advancements to support the global transition from silicon to  silicon carbide technology and  achieve new levels of sustainability and energy efficiency  across a variety of industries.” The R&D  facility is intended to augment Wolfspeed’s establishment of the John Palmour Manufacturing Center for Silicon Carbide (the world’s largest silicon carbide crystal growth facility,  currently under construction in Siler City,  North Carolina). Phase-one  construction is expected to be completed in 2024. Upon completion of the full  build-out and combined with the firm’s ongoing materials expansion at its  Durham headquarters, this will increase Wolfspeed’s material production by more  than 10x and create 1800 new jobs. The facility will supply 200mm SiC wafers to  Wolfspeed’s Mohawk Valley Fab in  Marcy, NY (which opened in April 2022 as the world’s first 200mm SiC  fabrication facility). US Secretary  of Commerce Gina Raimondo and North Carolina  Governor Roy Cooper were also in attendance at the event. “As one of the top three public research universities in  North Carolina and the nation’s  largest HBCU [historically black college and  university], we are keenly interested in the future of the semiconductor  chip industry in our state,” says NC A&T’s  chancellor Harold L Martin Sr. “As a research and education partner  with Wolfspeed, we bring deep academic and scientific strengths in STEM  disciplines to our collaboration, as well as the fact that we produce more  Black engineers than any university in the nation,” he adds. “This new facility  will integrate our research and development interests toward major economic and  social impact, not just in North Carolina,  but globally.” Wolfspeed has  recognized A&T, one of the nation’s leading engineering institutions, as a  critical component of its talent development strategy. In 2020, Wolfspeed  committed $4m over five years to the  HBCU (the single largest donation in the university’s history at the time) to  create the Wolfspeed Endowed Scholars  Program. In September 2022, the two entities announced a partnership to develop  comprehensive education and training curricula, including undergraduate and  graduate credentials in silicon carbide  semiconductor manufacturing, as well as training and career advancement  programs for existing semiconductor manufacturing workers. To further  support Wolfspeed’s growing talent needs, the company is working with several  schools within North Carolina’s  robust community college system to develop the skills required for its advanced  manufacturing needs. This includes apprenticeship and pre-apprenticeship  opportunities, customized training curricula, career and college promise  pathways for high-school students, and work-based learning programs. 