SGL Carbon reaches long-term offtake agreement to supply graphite components to Wolfspeed Based on their established and long-lasting business relationship,  SGL Carbon has entered into a long-term offtake agreement to supply  graphite components to Wolfspeed Inc of  Durham, NC, USA for its US production, as it ramps up capacity to meet  steepening demand for silicon carbide technology and devices. SGL Carbon will provide materials for Wolfspeed’s Mohawk Valley  Fab (the world’s first and currently largest 200mm silicon carbide wafer  fab, opened last year) as well its John Palmour Manufacturing Center for  Silicon Carbide (the world’s largest materials manufacturing facility,  currently under construction in Siler City, North Carolina). “We see SGL Carbon as a strong partner in graphite solutions  that are needed for the expanding silicon carbide semiconductor demand,” says  Jeff Ferraro, senior VP of global procurement and planning at Wolfspeed.  “SGL Carbon’s position in the market, their deep technical understanding,  and comprehensive product portfolio are invaluable for the commercial ramp of  the industry,” he adds. Silicon carbide demand is increasing worldwide because of its  superior performance, allowing for more efficient power conversion,  lighter and more compact designs, and overall system-design cost savings. In  the SiC semiconductor production process, graphite components are essential  ingredients. From the synthesis of the silicon carbide powder to the  finished wafer, SGL Carbon offers customized solutions made of isostatic  graphite and carbon composites, as well as insulation materials. “Silicon carbide power semiconductors are more efficient  and powerful, thus enabling, for example, higher bottom-line ranges in  electric vehicles,” notes Burkhard Straube, head of SGL Carbon’s Graphite Solutions  business unit. “It is a key technology for the future of e-mobility and  also for 5G communication, stationary energy storage, and wind  turbines. We are proud to make a substantial contribution with our graphite  components and solutions.” 