CSA Catapult celebrates fifth anniversary Compound Semiconductor Applications (CSA) Catapult is  celebrating its five-year anniversary with the publication of an overview of  its impact and achievements to date. Established in 2017 by UK Government agency Innovate UK  (which provides funding and support for business innovation as part of UK  Research and Innovation), CSA Catapult is a not-for-profit organization  focused on accelerating the adoption of compound semiconductors for three  key areas (the road to Net Zero, future telecoms and intelligent sensing).  Headquartered in South Wales, it works across the UK in a range of  industry sectors, from automotive to medical, and from digital communications  to aerospace. The new document details the journey of CSA Catapult from 2018 to 2022,  highlighting achievements that have included: delivering over £14m of  collaborative R&D projects; leveraging over £177m of direct investment; and  creating or safeguarding over 5000 jobs across the UK. CSA Catapult’s function in the UK’s compound semiconductor  ecosystem is helping companies to fully embrace the power of compound semiconductor  technology and bring their innovations to market. During the last five years, CSA Catapult has focussed on  leveraging research, eliminating barriers, minimizing risk, accelerating routes  to market, and attracting investment for collaborators in industries ranging  from vehicle electrification and future telecoms to smart energy grids. In 2018, CSA Catapult set up an Innovation Centre in Newport,  South Wales, offering innovation as a service and providing knowledge and  expertise across four areas: power electronics; photonics; RF (radio frequency)  and microwave; and advanced packaging. This has led to 180 collaborations with  industrial partners, including BMW and McLaren Applied. In 2022, CSA Catapult entered a partnership with Siemens to  deliver joint projects that accelerate the development of leading-edge power electronics,  machines and drives technology, capability, skills and jobs across the UK. The  Siemens Power Electronics Innovation Hub is now permanently located in CSA Catapult’s  Innovation Centre in Newport. Throughout the first five years of its existence, CSA Catapult  has also developed a wide-ranging skills program, starting in schools, and  extending through to postgraduate-level and the workplace. Through its  dedicated Skills Academy, it is developing initiatives to help create the  workforce of the future that will develop the next generation of compound semiconductor  technologies. In the next five years, CSA Catapult aims to grow technology  clusters and local supply chains across the UK, creating a network of  regional support hubs in areas of significant national strength and importance,  including quantum sensing, healthcare, defence and space. CSA Catapult also aims to create more prototypes, building on  experience in automotive power electronics technologies to address new  market opportunities. CSA Catapult’s plays a “central convening role in building growth  of supply chains working with industry,” says interim chair Rob Bryan.  “The Catapult must continue to grow academic collaborations; create new  opportunities to work with industry; accelerate commercial scale-up; safeguard  intellectual property; identify new international partners to address new  and emerging markets. Upskilling a new generation is critical and I am  particularly proud of our Skills Academy,” he adds. “I would like to take this opportunity to thank my predecessor,  our first chair, Kevin Crofton, for his inspirational leadership during the  Catapult’s first years. He led us from start-up to become the leading neutral  convener as well as the major commercial partner in the UK research and  development ecosystem,” continues Bryan. “CSA Catapult is at the heart of the flourishing UK compound semiconductor  ecosystem. We work with academia and industry to accelerate increasing product  development, testing and evaluation,” says CEO Martin McHugh. “We will identify  significant new domestic and international markets and end-to-end supply chains,”  he adds. “In the next five years, we will support industry and supply chains  and clusters, extending our footprint and contributing to the UK Government’s  levelling up agenda.” Key achievements include: In Summer 2022, CSA Catapult surveyed its customers to understand  its impact, with the following key findings: In addition, internal analysis shows that 44% of the companies that  had worked with CSA Catapult have secured public sector funding  because of their direct or indirect engagement with the company. Companies that  the Catapult has worked with are more than twice as likely to get private  investment (36% versus 16%) and the average private investment raised by  companies that work with it (per company per year) has also more than doubled,  it is reckoned. 