ROHM’s ultra-high-speed control IC technology maximizes performance of GaN switching devices Due to their superior high-speed switching characteristics the  adoption of GaN devices has expanded in recent years. However, the speed of  control ICs (for directing the  driving of these devices) has become challenging. In response, Japan-based power semiconductor  maker ROHM Co Ltd has further evolved its ultra-high-speed  Nano Pulse Control technology (which  is designed for power supply ICs), improving the control pulse width  from the conventional 9ns to what is claimed to be an industry-best of 2ns.  Leveraging this technology allowed ROHM to establish its ultra-high-speed  Control IC technology, which can  maximize the performance of GaN devices. Miniaturizing the power supply  circuit requires a reduction in the size of the peripheral components through  high-speed switching, says ROHM. Achieving this requires a control IC that can take advantage of the drive  performance of high-speed switching devices such as GaN. To propose solutions that include peripheral components, ROHM  established ultra-high-speed Control IC  technology optimized for GaN devices utilizing proprietary Nano Pulse Control analog power supply technology. ROHM’s  ultra-high-speed pulse control technology achieves a switch-ON time (control  width of the power supply IC) on the order of nanoseconds, making  it possible to convert from high to low voltages using a single IC — unlike  conventional solutions requiring two power supply  ICs. ROHM is working to commercialize Control ICs utilizing this technology, with plans to start sample  shipment of 100V one-channel DC-DC Control IC  in second-half 2023. Its use, in conjunction with ROHM’s EcoGaN series of GaN  devices, is expected to result in significant energy savings and miniaturization in a variety of applications,  including base stations, data centers, FA (factory automation) equipment, and drones (Figure 1).  “GaN has been highly anticipated for many years as a power semiconductor material that can achieve  energy savings, but there are obstacles such as quality and cost,” notes professor Yusuke Mori, Graduate School of  Engineering, Osaka University. “Under these circumstances, ROHM has  established a mass-production system for GaN devices that deliver improved  reliability while also developing Control ICs  that can maximize their performance. This represents a huge step towards the  widespread adoption of GaN devices,” he adds. “I hope to contribute to  achieving a decarbonized society by collaborating our GaN-on-GaN wafer  technology.” ROHM says that the Nano Pulse Control technology in its new  Control IC has been cultivated by utilizing its vertically integrated  production system to combine advanced analog expertise spanning circuit design,  processes and layout. Using a unique circuit configuration to significantly  reduce the minimum control pulse width of the Control IC from the conventional  9ns to 2ns makes it possible to step down from high voltages (up to 60V) to low  voltages (down to 0.6V) with a single power supply  IC in 24V and 48V applications. Also, support for smaller drive peripheral  components for high-frequency switching of GaN devices shrinks mounting area by  about 86% compared with conventional solutions when paired with an EcoGaN power supply circuit (see Figures 2 and 3).   