ams OSRAM adds OSLON UV 3535 series to mid-power UV-C LED range ams OSRAM GmbH of  Premstätten, Austria and Munich, Germany has introduced the OSLON UV 3535 series of mid-power  UV-C LEDs, meeting customers’ requirements for longer lifetime, higher output power and easier system  integration. With a typical wavelength  of 275nm, the OSLON UV 3535 LEDs combine a compact design with what is claimed  to be leading efficiency and high quality, making them suitable for use in  consumer or industrial applications such as water purification or air-conditioning  systems. These products show a typical output power of 40mW at a drive current  of 185mA for the SU CULDP1.VC, and 75mW at 350mA for the SU CULEP1.VC  (both now available worldwide).  Picture:  ams OSRAM’s new SU CULDP1.VC (left) and SU CULEP1.VC (right) UV-C LEDs. The new package design  with no cover glass and an integrated reflector improves output by reducing  optical losses and leads to a comparably high wall-plug efficiency of 3.7%. The  reflector collects the die’s emissions and directs the light forward with a  viewing angle of 120°. A standard 3.5mm x 3.5mm footprint and the  absence of cover glass and lens give system designers the flexibility to  apply a standard UV-C lens and to optimize the light output for their  application. A further advantage of the  SU CULDP1.VC and SU CULEP1.VC is an application-dependent lifetime.  The package also includes an ESD protection device and a transparent dielectric  coating as a protective element, contributing to the robustness of the LED. “Manufacturers of UV disinfection  equipment are competing to provide the most value to customers by producing the  required disinfection dose with fewer and longer-lasting emitters,” notes Pia  Weinmann, senior product manager for UV-C. “The OSLON UV 3535  products offer a new competitive edge with their increased output power and  lifetime.” ams OSRAM says  that the enhanced performance of the OSLON UV 3535 LEDs is the result of  innovations in package design and semiconductor technology. The new open  package design is said to be robust, compact and flexible for use in  applications that require medium to high UV-C output power. The AlGaN-based flip chip  is said to be a more reliable radiation source than traditional UV-C sources  and provides flexibility in terms of wavelength, output power and switching.  The products are part of a performance roadmap to further enhance the firm’s  position in the fast-developing UV-C market. 