Crystal IS and Asahi Kasei set 160mW output record for single-chip UVC LED in 260–270nm germicidal range Tokyo-based  Asahi Kasei and its subsidiary Crystal IS Inc of  Green Island, NY, USA, which makes proprietary ultraviolet  light-emitting diodes (UVC LEDs), have  demonstrated their next-generation Klaran single-chip UVC LED which emits at 160mW in the ideal germicidal range of 260–270nm. Setting a new record  for single-chip device output in a commercial device, this marks a 60% increase  over prior Crystal IS devices  while retaining the optimal wavelength for germicidal efficiency. The higher-output  device will be used to accelerate the adoption of UVC LEDs and hasten the widespread replacement of low-pressure  mercury lamps, say the firms. While the new device will retain the Klaran’s  compact 3.5mm x 3.5mm package and solder pad  design to allow backward compatibility with existing customer designs, the higher  output will allow UVC LEDs to meet  the performance and cost targets needed to expand into new applications in  high-flow water and air treatment, it is reckoned. The new  single-chip UVC LED design uses a  rigid fused silica lens and a thin  layer of proprietary UVC transparent resin developed by Asahi Kasei  specifically to withstand the intense UVC output. In contrast to soft molded  lens, the rigid fused silica lens  allows higher transmission of the UVC light, which ensures stable long-life  performance and high temperature stability. Asahi Kasei says that it leveraged  its long-running expertise in the field to develop the proprietary resin after  a careful and lengthy evaluation of commercially available adhesives resulted  in no suitable candidate. “This new high-output and long-life  Klaran device is made possible by the strong cooperation between  Crystal IS and Asahi Kasei innovation teams,” notes president &  CEO Eoin Connolly. “With this new device in our portfolio, Klaran UVC LED  devices make another significant step forward in replacing low-pressure  mercury lamp technology and promoting the transition to  non-mercury/non-ozone generating devices.” Engineering samples of the new 160mW  single-chip UVC LED  can be requested now from Crystal IS. Commercial product release is  expected later in 2023. 