NUBURU expects revenue to double to over $3m for 2023 NUBURU Inc of  Centennial, CO, USA says that, for full-year 2023, it expects revenue to more than  double year-on-year to over $3m. Founded in 2015, NUBURU is a developer  and manufacturer of industrial blue lasers that leverage their high-brightness,  high-power design to produce fast, high-quality laser materials processing,  including laser welding and additive manufacturing of copper, gold, aluminium  and other industrially important metals. The firm’s industrial blue lasers are  claimed to produce defect-free welds up to eight times faster than the  traditional approaches — all with the flexibility inherent to laser processing. “We exited 2022 with commercial success  as we began making deliveries to our key customers including Essentium and  AFWERX. Early in 2023, we launched our latest product, the NUBURU  BL Series, which we expect to start shipping in Q2,” says CEO &  co-founder Dr Mark Zediker. “We expect 2023 to be another year in which we  achieve critical milestones that continue to enable the customer adoption of  our solutions in our rapidly evolving markets,” he adds. “We continue to review and make necessary  adjustments to our product development roadmap to be aligned with our current  and prospective customer relationships and to best utilize our company  resources,” Zediker continues. “As such, we expect our 2023 revenues to be  weighted towards the second half of the year. We anticipate that momentum will  provide the critical foundation for additional revenue acceleration in 2024.” Also for full-year 2023, NUBURU expects  EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes,  depreciation and amortization) of negative $21-23m and free  cash flow of negative $24–26m. “As we’ve completed our transition to  being a public company and look to solidify our competitive position, we expect  to engage with the financial markets to strengthen our balance sheet,” notes chief  financial officer Brian Knaley. “We intend to utilize additional funding  sources to allow NUBURU to accelerate our growth trajectory by enabling us to  further invest in technology and other resources designed to drive our growth  in 2023 and beyond.” 