Aehr receives volume production order for WaferPak full-wafer Contactors Semiconductor production  test and reliability qualification equipment supplier Aehr Test Systems of Fremont, CA, USA has received an  order from its second major silicon carbide (SiC) customer for production  quantities of WaferPak full-wafer Contactors to be used with previously ordered  FOX-XP systems for test & burn-in of SiC wafers in their production  facility. Shipments will begin in Aehr’s current fiscal fourth quarter  that began on 1 March. As previously announced, this customer  has purchased Aehr’s FOX multi-wafer test & burn-in systems for SiC wafers  for devices such as electric vehicle (EV) drive unit inverters, EV  chargers, and other devices for use in industrial and photovoltaic inverter  applications. Aehr has installed both a FOX-NP system used for new product  development and engineering characterization as well as the first of two FOX-XP  systems already purchased that will be upgraded to include Aehr’s new fully  integrated and automated WaferPak Aligner for volume production test &  burn-in of their silicon carbide devices. The new WaferPak AutoAligner  will begin shipments in Aehr’s current fiscal quarter. The order reflects initial WaferPak  purchases from this customer for use in volume production of devices to meet  the demand for SiC power semiconductors used in power conversion  applications for electric vehicles, says president & CEO Gayn  Erickson. “We believe that this customer will purchase a large number of our  FOX-XP systems to meet their publicly announced significant increase in planned  capacity and revenue growth over the next several years and through the end of the  decade,” he adds. “Forecasts from William Blair estimate  that the silicon carbide market for devices in electric vehicles  alone, such as traction inverters and on-board chargers, is expected to grow  from 119,000 6”-equivalent silicon carbide wafers for  electric vehicles in 2021 to more than 4.1 million 6”-equivalent  wafers in 2030, representing a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 48.4%.  This equates to almost 35 times larger in 2030 than in 2021. In addition,  6”-equivalent silicon carbide wafers for other markets such as solar,  industrial and other electrification infrastructure are expected to grow to  another 3 million wafers by 2030,” Erickson continues. “Aehr is adding infrastructure and  capacity in design resources and tools, material suppliers and manufacturing  and test of our FOX-XP WaferPaks to meet the anticipated significant growth in  demand for these full-wafer contactors for the silicon carbide and  gallium nitride power semiconductor test & burn-in markets as  well as several other markets.” The FOX-XP and FOX-NP systems, available  with multiple WaferPak Contactors (full-wafer test) or multiple DiePak Carriers  (singulated die/module test) configurations, are capable of functional test  & burn-in/cycling of devices such as silicon carbide and  gallium nitride power semiconductors, silicon photonics as well  as other optical devices, 2D and 3D sensors, flash memories,  magnetic sensors, micro-controllers, and other leading-edge ICs in either  wafer form factor, before they are assembled into single or multi-die  stacked packages, or in singulated die or module form factor. 