onsemi launches simulation tools to bring complex power electronics applications to market faster For its EliteSiC  silicon carbide (SiC) product family and its applications, power semiconductor  IC supplier onsemi of Phoenix, AZ, USA has launched the online Elite Power  Simulator and Self-Service PLECS Model Generator, which provide insights  for complex power electronic applications through system-level simulations  at an early stage of the development cycle. The tools are said to save  power electronic engineers time by providing accurate simulation data,  enabling EliteSiC product selection tailored to customer applications, instead  of costly and time-consuming hardware fabrication and testing. Users have the power and  flexibility to create high-fidelity system-level PLECS models when the  Elite Power Simulator is deployed in conjunction with the Self-Service  PLECS Model Generator. Whether uploaded to onsemi’s Elite Power  Simulator or downloaded for direct use, the self-service PLECS models deliver  the optimization and accuracy required for demanding power electronic simulations.  The models are generated based on typical or worst-case conditions to let the  customer design within the technology boundaries. The capability to define  application-specific parasitics ensures that the generated PLECS models provide  highly accurate results for the customer’s system-level simulations. “Our PLECS simulator has  proven very popular with power designers due to speed and ease of use,” comments  Jost Allmelling, managing director & co-founder, Plexim. “It is  particularly exciting to see the truly novel aspects here, including the  ability to simulate soft switching accurately, the customized models via  the onsemi Self-Service PLECS Model Generator and the ready-made models  for corner cases.” To date, system-level  simulators and their associated PLECS models have only been valid for  hard-switching topologies, with simulation results for soft-switching  applications such as LLC (inductor-inductor-capacitor) or CLLC  (capacitor-inductor-inductor-capacitor) being highly inaccurate. onsemi claims  that its industry-first PLECS models break this trend and solve this problem. “This is a significant  step for the industry, increasing its ability to get both hard- and soft-switching  designs to market quickly,” says Asif Jakwani, senior VP & general manager  of the Advanced Power Division (part of onsemi’s Power Solutions  Group). “Our tools enable our customers to understand how our devices perform  in their application environment and fully optimize the performance within the  boundaries of the technology.” onsemi’s  Elite Power Simulator and Self-Service PLECS Model Generator is being  exhibited in booth 1032 at the Applied Power Electronics Conference (APEC 2023)  in Orlando, Florida (19-23 March). 