Transphorm releases 3kW inverter board with Microchip’s digital signal controller Transphorm Inc of Goleta, near Santa Barbara, CA, USA — which designs and manufactures  JEDEC- and AEC-Q101-qualified gallium nitride  (GaN) field-effect transistors  (FETs) for high-voltage power conversion — has announced availability of  its third high-power GaN design tool using a digital signal controller  from Microchip Technology Inc of Chandler, AZ, USA. The  TDINV3000W050B-KIT is a 3.0kW DC-to-AC non-isolated full-bridge inverter  evaluation board. It pairs Transphorm’s TP65H050G4WS 650V, 50mΩ SuperGaN  FET (in a TO-247 package) with Microchip’s  dsPIC33CK digital signal controller (DSC) plug-in module (PIM), which includes  pre-programmed firmware that can be easily customized per end-application  requirements. Transphorm says that use of the new board highlights GaN’s  superior performance and enables an understanding of how GaN can be used for  broad industrial and renewables power systems. As with the previous two  SuperGaN/Microchip DSC evaluation boards (the 4kW TDTTP4000W066C-KIT) and  the 2.5kW TDTTP2500B066B-KIT), the single-phase 3.0kW inverter board is  backed by access to Microchip’s worldwide technical support team for firmware  development assistance. “Our dsPIC digital signal  controllers and firmware customization expertise complements Transphorm’s GaN  technology and helps accelerate development while simplifying the design,” says  Joe Thomsen, vice president of Microchip’s MCU16 business unit.  “Working together with Transphorm, we are proud to enable flexible and highly  efficient power conversion to address a wide range of sustainability  applications.” “High-voltage power systems such as EV chargers,  uninterruptible power supplies (UPS), and solar inverters are quickly  becoming rapid growth markets for GaN. Transphorm’s GaN platform was developed  with such applications in mind,” says Philip Zuk, Transphorm’s senior VP  of business development & marketing. “Working with Microchip on the  firmware side enables us to support important, sustainable customer power system  projects in a highly efficient manner. It removes potential limitations that  may be experienced with firmware programming, simplifying development and  speeding time to market,” he adds. “This collaboration allows  renewables and other industries to easily leverage all our GaN has to offer.” Firmware updates for the dsPIC33CK PIM  will be available for download from Microchip’s  website. Microchip’s dsPIC DSCs are supported  by a set of embedded design tools created to empower developers, even  those with limited expertise. These tools provide intuitive graphical user interface  for device initialization in Microchip’s free MPLAB X Integrated  Development Environment. The software tools are complemented by a full line of  programmer, debugger and emulator accessories. The TDINV3000W050B-KIT is available  through distributors Digi-Key Corp and Mouser Electronics Inc. The evaluation board is designed for use  when developing vehicle-to-grid (V2G) charging systems, solar or photovoltaic  (PV) inverters, uninterruptible power supplies (UPS), and other high-voltage  power applications. 