Navitas surpasses 75 million GaN power shipments Gallium nitride (GaN) power IC and  silicon carbide (SiC) technology firm Navitas Semiconductor of Torrance,  CA, USA has surpassed the  milestone of shipping more than 75 million  high-voltage GaN units. Founded in 2014, Navitas introduced what it claimed to be the  first commercial GaN power integrated circuits.  Entering mass production in 2018, its proprietary GaNFast power ICs monolithically integrate GaN power  and GaN drive plus control and protection circuits to enable faster charging, higher power density and greater energy savings for mobile, consumer, enterprise,  eMobility and new energy markets.  Next, GaNSense power ICs added  autonomous sensing and fast control, with single and half-bridge portfolios.  Now, new GaNSense Control ICs  combine high-voltage GaN power ICs  with high-speed, low-voltage silicon system controllers for even higher  integration, ease-of-use and system performance. Navitas is addressing a 2 billion  unit per year mobile fast, and now ultra-fast, charging market  opportunity, with over 240 end-customer chargers reaching production. All of  the top 10 mobile OEMs are in  production or development with Navitas, including Dell, Samsung, Lenovo, LG,  Xiaomi, Asus and OPPO, plus a broad range of after-market companies such as  Anker, Belkin, Baseus and many more. As smartphone power demand has increased —  driven by larger screens, bigger batteries, and 5G functionality — users have  insisted on faster charging and ultra-portability. Now, smartphones such as  Realme’s GT3 charge from 0–100%  in just 9 minutes 30 seconds using a GaNFast 240W charger with  power density of more than 2.4W/cc. As millions of GaN ICs were shipped, Navitas introduced the  world’s only 20-year limited warranty, heralding GaN’s entry into higher-power,  more demanding applications, such as home appliances,  data centers, solar, energy storage and electric vehicles (EV). Navitas says that its dedicated Data Center  Design Center has created a series  of complete, multi-kW platform designs for AC-DC supplies that exceed Europe’s  strict ‘Titanium-plus’ high-efficiency standards, are half the size and lower cost than legacy silicon solutions. This  performance has been confirmed by customers such as Compuware. In home appliance and industrial markets, motor drives can be made  more efficient, smaller and lighter by using GaN in applications such as vacuum cleaners, refrigerator compressors,  washing machines and dryers. A  typical example is the 400W drive using three GaNSense half-bridge power ICs, with over 70% reduction in power  loss. For residential solar inverters, GaN can bring an estimated 25%  system cost saving versus legacy silicon due to high-frequency operation and  integration. In parallel, Navitas’ GeneSiC silicon carbide  MOSFETs are already in mass production for higher-power commercial string inverters, with customers such as Germany-based  KATEK. Navitas’ SiC is also shipping into the EV market, and Navitas’ GaN  is in development for multi-kW on-board chargers (OBC) and DC–DC  converters. For ‘Vehicle-to-everything’ (V2x) — i.e. using an EV to provide  power to other loads, whether a home, clinic or other vehicle — Navitas’ EV  Design Center platform designs  include a 6.6kW ‘3-in-1’ design, with consolidated bi-directional OBC and DC–DC  functions, that achieves up to 17% energy savings  and a 1.6x increase in power density  versus competing solutions. 