ams OSRAM launches compact surface-mount edge-emitting laser with narrow 110µm aperture ams OSRAM GmbH  of Premstätten, Austria and  Munich, Germany has extended its edge-emiting laser diode portfolio by  introducing a compact surface-mount device with a small aperture size. The SPL S1L90H_3  offers improved performance at long  range and easier optical integration in light detection & ranging (LiDAR) and long-distance industrial ranging  applications. The SPL S1L90H_3 is  said to be one of the first surface-mount edge-emitting lasers to have an  aperture as small as 110µm. The small aperture enables the application to  produce a narrow beam. The 905nm infrared technology is optimized for  short-pulsed LiDAR applications such as drones and robots as well as in  building and factory automation equipment. The single-channel SPL S1L90H_3  features ams OSRAM’s multi-junction  technology, consisting of three vertically stacked emitters in a single laser die mounted inside the device’s 2.3mm x 2.0mm x 0.69mm  package. This enables the laser to produce peak output power of 65W. These features result in better illumination of the target area at  long range in distance measurement, 3D optical sensing and simultaneous localization and  mapping (SLAM) applications. This is valuable in products such as drones and  robots, as well as in building and factory automation equipment, notes the  firm. “High-volume consumer and industrial products need the convenience  of a laser in a small surface-mount package that can be assembled by automated  production equipment,” says Jouni Riihimaeki, product marketing manager for industrial lasers. “Now, the  SPL S1L90H_3 extends our portfolio  to include a lower-power surface-mount device for industrial markets, and with  an aperture half the size of previous devices.” The optimized, power-efficient pulsed laser  SPL S1L90H_3 enables a maximum pulse width of 50ns. Beam divergence is just  10° (parallel) x 25° (perpendicular), enabling efficient beam shaping with its small aperture. The SPL S1L90H_3’s inductance-optimized package is suitable for  pulses shorter than 2ns. The robust surface-mount package is suitable for use  in industrial environments as well as in consumer applications and home and  building automation. It is specified for corrosion robustness to class 3B, and offers low thermal resistance for easier system thermal design. 