Tower announces first heterogeneous integration of QD lasers on SiPho foundry platform Specialty analog foundry Tower  Semiconductor Ltd of Migdal Haemek, Israel, in collaboration with Quintessent Inc of Santa Barbara, CA, USA,  which specializes in laser integration with silicon photonic  integrated circuits (PICs), have announced what they claim is the  first heterogeneous integration of gallium arsenide  (GaAs) quantum dot (QD)  lasers and a foundry silicon photonics  (SiPho) platform (PH18DB). This PH18DB platform is targeted at optical  transceiver modules in data centers  and telecom networks, as well as new emerging applications in artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning (ML), light detection &  ranging (LiDAR) and other sensors. According to the market research firm  LightCounting, the silicon photonics  transceiver market is expected to rise at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 24%, reaching a total  addressable market (TAM) of $9bn in 2025. The new PH18DB platform offers GaAs-based QD lasers and  semiconductor optical amplifier  (SOA) fabricated on Tower’s high-volume base PH18M silicon photonics foundry technology, which  includes low-loss waveguides, photodetectors and modulators heterogeneously  integrated on a single silicon chip.  This platform will enable dense PICs that can support higher channel count in a small form factor. Open foundry availability of this  220nm silicon-on-insulator (SOI) platform will provide access to a broad array  of product development teams to  simplify their PIC design through the use of laser and SOA pcells, in addition  to the feature-rich baseline PH18 process. Initial  process design kits (PDK) for PH18DB have been made available in partnership  with the US Defense Advanced Research  Projects Agency (DARPA)  under the Lasers for Universal Microscale Optical Systems (LUMOS) program,  which aims to bring high-performance lasers to advanced photonics platforms for  commercial and defense applications, and multi-project wafer (MPW) runs are  planned for 2023 and 2024. The PH18DB  platform complements Tower’s previously announced, and now prototyping, PH18DA  platform, which offers heterogeneously integrated indium phosphide (InP) lasers, modulators and detectors. These two  heterogeneously integrated SiPho foundry platforms offer what is described as a  rich set of devices and options to designers across the broad spectrum of  leading-edge applications. Tower continues to offer its silicon-only PH18MA  platform, now in high-volume production, for applications that do not require  heterogeneous integration of III-V active elements. 