NUBURU appoints laser industry veteran as chief marketing & sales officer High-power industrial blue laser technology firm NUBURU Inc of Centennial, CO, USA has  appointed Dr Matthew Philpott as  chief marketing & sales officer. He  will lead the team to further develop NUBURU’s product roadmap and to  accelerate market penetration across all segments. Founded in  2015, NUBURU is a developer and manufacturer of industrial blue lasers that leverage their  high-brightness, high-power design to produce fast, high-quality laser  materials processing, including laser welding  and additive manufacturing of copper, gold, aluminium and other industrially  important metals. The firm’s industrial blue lasers  are claimed to produce defect-free welds up to eight times faster than the  traditional approaches — all with the flexibility inherent to laser processing. Philpott brings “a proven track record of globally coordinated,  exponential growth and a vision for customer success which addresses the full  customer experience from process  development to mass production,” says CEO & co-founder Dr Mark Zediker. “Matthew will help drive  our ambitious growth plans and accelerate NUBURU’s commercial efforts,” he  adds. “NUBURU’s technology is critically important today as mass production inherently demands zero  rework, and a stable process window  which can easily be adopted to unpredicted production challenges,” comments  Philpott. “Customers demand parts-per-million yields, not simply a best  effort,” he adds. “As NUBURU’s blue lasers offer precision, speed,  near-defect-free and a multi-emitter redundancy that is unmatched by current  state-of-the-art solutions, the timing is perfect.” Philpott brings over 20 years  of laser industry experience from Coherent Corp,  where he was most recently director of global business development. He led a multi-national electric vehicle welding team, taking Coherent  from a new entrant to being a globally recognized top supplier for battery and EV production. Philpott holds a  B.S. in Chemistry from Furman University and a Ph.D. in Physical Chemistry from  the University of Washington. 