Aehr receives $6.7m order for FOX WaferPak full-wafer contactors Semiconductor production test and reliability  qualification equipment supplier Aehr Test Systems of Fremont, CA, USA  has received a $6.7m order from its lead silicon carbide (SiC) test &  burn-in customer for multiple WaferPak full-wafer contactors to meet its  increased production capacity needs for silicon carbide power semiconductors  for the electric vehicle (EV) market. This customer is a leading Fortune 500  supplier of semiconductor devices with a significant customer base in the  automotive semiconductor market. “We are excited about this customer’s continued production ramp  and new design wins using our wafer-level test & burn-in systems and  WaferPaks,” says president &CEO Gayn Erickson. “This WaferPak order is  about half of the total WaferPak contactors needed for the FOX-XP wafer-level  test & burn-in systems previously ordered by this customer and announced in  January.” The WaferPaks are expected to be delivered beginning this current  fiscal quarter and through the fiscal first-quarter 2024, ending 31 August. “FOX-XP system orders are required to increase general  manufacturing capacity, while our WaferPak contactors are unique to each new  design win. As our customers win new designs from their customers, Aehr  secures orders for new WaferPak contactors to fulfill these new wins,” says Erickson.  Over time, Aehr expects to see follow-on  WaferPak business grow both in absolute dollars and also as a percentage of  overall revenue. “Based on feedback and forecasts from current and prospective  customers in the last several months and particularly in recent face-to-face  visits with current and prospective customers in the US, Europe and Asia, we  are seeing increased market momentum and continued adoption of silicon carbide  MOSFETs by electric vehicle automobile manufacturers that will require  wafer-level burn-in. We also see upside growth potential for silicon carbide  usage in electrification infrastructure, electric trains and other  high-power DC-to-AC inverter applications,” Erickson continues. Aehr is increasing its inventory and adding additional  manufacturing capacity of systems and WaferPaks in anticipation of the  potential significant upside of the broad-based move of silicon carbide  suppliers to wafer-level burn-in. “Future orders of our FOX-XP multi-wafer test  & burn-in systems and WaferPak full-wafer contactors are anticipated to grow  to meet the anticipated growth of SiC MOSFET test & burn-in  requirements for electric vehicle DC-to-AC traction inverters and  electric vehicle chargers, as well as other power conversion  applications such as solar inverters,” says Erickson. “Aehr Test’s unique solutions allow our customers to test and  burn-in their devices with 100% confidence and traceability, which are needed  to address the reliability, safety, security and confidence for  mission-critical applications such as semiconductors used in motor controllers  and power conversion in electric vehicles,” he adds. “We are very well  positioned to capitalize on the long-term growth opportunities such as these  silicon carbide devices within the electric vehicle as well as the  infrastructure to support the electric vehicle market.” Available with multiple WaferPak contactors (full-wafer test) or  multiple DiePak carriers (singulated die/module test) configurations, the  FOX-XP system is capable of functional test and burn-in/cycling of integrated  devices such as silicon carbide power devices, silicon photonics  as well as other optical devices, 2D and 3D sensors, flash memories,  gallium nitride (GaN), magnetic sensors, microcontrollers, and other  leading-edge ICs in either wafer form factor, before they are assembled  into single- or multi-die stacked packages, or in singulated die or module form factor. 