CrayoNano’s CrayoLED H-series UV-C LEDs enter 100mW and 5% efficiency performance class CrayoNano AS of Trondheim, Norway — which  develops and manufactures semiconductor components based on patented and proprietary  nanomaterials technology — has announced  improvements to the performance of its CrayoLED H-series UV-C LEDs. Entering  the 100mW and 5% wall-plug efficiency (WPE) class at a standard operating  current of 350mA, the LED is targeting the disinfection market. The CrayoLED UV-C LED is said to offer reliable and long-lasting  solutions for demanding disinfection applications. The high-power performance class  of 100mW can effectively inactivate bacteria, viruses and other  illness-inducing pathogens in a relatively short amount of time, improving  system efficiency and future disinfection automation. The improved wall-plug efficiency of 5% means that the CrayoLED is  more energy-efficient and generates less heat, resulting in a longer lifetime.  The externally confirmed L70 TM-21  extrapolated lifetime is more than 10,000 hours at 350mA, a defining  industry-required standard. The CrayoLED would have an effective lifespan of up  to 5–10 years in commercial and  residential point-of-use (POU) and point-of-entry (POE) water disinfection  systems, which typically use UV-C LEDs for several minutes per operation cycle,  for a total annual usage of 1000–2000 hours.  The CrayoLED is hence said to provide a reliable and long-lasting solution for  water disinfection. The long lifetime and high power output of 100mW reduce the need  for frequent replacement, facilitating the adoption of UV-C LED disinfection in  municipal water treatment  facilities. These facilities require reliable and powerful solutions to handle  higher water flows and to reduce  maintenance needs. The combination of the CrayoLED’s UV-C LED longevity and  performance makes it an efficient and effective solution for water treatment  applications, says the firm. “Our dedication to continuous development and commitment to  quality and performance has culminated in more than 30% improvement since the  product’s launch,” notes chief  revenue officer Michael Peil. “Entering the performance class of  100mW, 5% wall-plug efficiency, high drive current  capacity without compromising our values of quality first — make the CrayoLED a  reliable, efficient and robust solution, suitable to enable mass UV-C LED  adoption into disinfection applications,” he reckons. “With these results, we  look forward to further characterization of our LEDs at a higher drive current capacity.” The CrayoLED H-series (CLH-N3S) UV-C LED is available in both  sample quantities and in stock for volume production. 