BluGlass secures $10.2m via share placement; launches $2.7m entitlement offer for existing shareholders BluGlass Ltd of Silverwater, Australia – which manufactures gallium nitride  (GaN) blue laser diodes based on its proprietary low-temperature,  low-hydrogen remote-plasma chemical vapor deposition (RPCVD) technology – has secured $10.2m in commitments from  international and Australian institutional and sophisticated investors via a  strongly supported share placement  at an issue price of $0.06 per share. BluGlass is  also undertaking a non-renounceable entitlement offer  to raise up to a further $2.7m (before  costs), enabling shareholders to participate on the same terms as the  placement. Funds will be  used for additional fab equipment to scale and speed product delivery, and  expand BluGlass’ product offering to increase market competitiveness. “The support  of institutional and sophisticated investors provides confidence in our  technical and commercial roadmaps, and we are pleased to welcome new and  returning global funds to the register,” says chair James Walker. “The BluGlass  team remains focused on growing market traction, generating recurring revenues,  and delivering value for our customers and shareholders,” he adds. “This funding  will accelerate our commercialization progress with advanced in-house  capabilities enabling us to scale and speed our product delivery to meet significant unmet market needs,” says CEO  Jim Haden. “The market’s response to our initial products has been very  encouraging, and we are looking to capitalize on this momentum to rapidly build  our customer base and laser diode  bookings,” he adds. “We’re also  investing in our GaN laser offering to leverage our competitive advantages,  address new markets and applications, and take market share,” Haden continues.  “At the same time, we’re continuously improving the power and efficiency of our  products toward world-class standards, which will support growth in orders and  revenue.” The placement  comprises an offer of 169,992,032 new fully paid ordinary shares in BluGlass at  an issue price of $0.06, representing a 20% discount to the last closing share price on 8 March  and a 21.7% discount to the 15-day volume-weighted average market price of the shares. New shares under the  placement will rank equally with BluGlass’ existing ordinary shares. For the  entitlement offer, eligible shareholders may apply for 1 new share for every 30  fully paid ordinary shares held at 7pm (Sydney  time) on 16 March at an issue  price of $0.06. All  shareholders at the record date with a registered address in Australia or New Zealand will be eligible to participate.  Eligible shareholders may take up their entitlement to acquire new BluGlass  shares in full, in part, or not at all. The  entitlement offer is non-renounceable, so eligible shareholders who do not wish  to subscribe for some, or all, of their entitlement may not sell or transfer  their rights. 