MOVPE core–shell AlGaN nanorods for UV emission Researchers based in the UK and Germany  report progress in improving the optoelectronic behavior of core–shell aluminium gallium nitride (AlGaN) nanorods as a basis for ultraviolet (UV)  light-emitting devices [Douglas  Cameron et al, Nano Letters, v23, p1451, 2023]. The team from University of Strathclyde,  University of Bath and University of Cambridge in the UK and Technische  Universität Berlin in  Germany comment: “Our ’GaN-free’ designs upon sapphire substrates prevent self-absorption  from lower-bandgap materials. These effectively transparent device structures could  additionally allow for backside light extraction,  simplifying future contacting schemes in a commercial device.” In planar devices, UV-absorbing GaN layers  are used in p-type layers because of poor doping effectiveness of magnesium in  AlGaN. It is hoped that, by using the three-dimensional structuring of  nanorods, UV devices will benefit from enhanced doping, reduced dislocation  density, and improved light-extraction efficiency. Also, nanorods tend to be more strain-relaxed,  reducing charge-polarization-induced electric fields, and hence the impact of  the quantum-confined Stark effect (QCSE) on carrier recombination into photons.  Further, the radial deposition of shell layers tends to result in non-polar and  semi-polar facets, with reduced or zero electric fields, and thus reduced QCSE. The researchers used a commercially  scalable hybrid top-down/bottom-up method to create a simple single quantum well shell, using metal-organic  vapor phase epitaxy (M0VPE) rather than  the more laborious molecular beam epitaxy (MBE).  The team comments: “As techniques mature, we envisage the addition of  electron-blocking layers, multi-quantum well (MQW) structures, and other advancements found to improve  conventional LED performance. We expect that the nano-structuring of AlGaN-based  LEDs will be key to overcoming the current barriers to efficient deep UV emission in solid-state devices.” Potential applications for efficient  compact UV emitters include water purification, skin-safe disinfection, and  resin curing. 