Adtran, China Mobile and Windstream announce record field trials leveraging Acacia’s Coherent Interconnect Module 8 Acacia Communications Inc of Maynard, MA,  USA (now part of Cisco) — which develops and manufactures high-speed coherent  optical interconnect products — has reported the results of three breakthrough live network trials  showing ultra-long-haul, long-haul and regional distances recently completed by  Adtran with NYSERNet, China Mobile  with ZTE, and Windstream Wholesale, all leveraging Acacia’s Coherent Interconnect Module 8  (CIM 8). As these trials demonstrate, the CIM 8 enables network operators to achieve the highest capacity  and reach today while maximizing transmission data rate  across a wide range of multi-haul network applications including DCI, metro,  long-haul and subsea. Adtran announced  that it successfully completed a field trial  of 800G single-carrier transport, achieving error-free transmission over a  record distance of 2220km in NYSERNet’s production network. The test route passed through 14 route-and-select  flexgrid ROADMs comprising a total of 28 wavelength-selective switches.  Leveraging Acacia’s 140GBd DSP technology, this result was made possible by  Adtran’s use of continuous symbol rate tuning and probabilistic constellation  shaping offered by the CIM 8 module. The trial showcases an opportunity for  network operators to increase capacity and efficiency while minimizing  complexity and cost. A post-deadline paper accepted by OFC, using the NYSERNet  production network, describes the 800G trial over a distance of 2220km, an  error-free 1T single-carrier real-time transmission over 869km, and an  error-free transmission of single-carrier 138Gbaud 800G over 1422km with  filtering from 24 wavelength-selective switches (WSS) from in-line  reconfigurable optical add drop  multiplexers (ROADMs) configured to 150GHz slot width. “We’ve taken single-carrier 800Gbit/s data transmission further  than ever before. And we’ve achieved it not in a lab but in a real-world  network also carrying live traffic,” says Sorin Tibuleac, director of system  architecture at Optical Networks at  Adtran. “What’s more, we succeeded without any optimization to the line system, maintaining the same amplifier  settings used before the field trial. We’ve demonstrated that the highest  capacity and reach can now be accomplished even over deployed fiber comprising  a mix of standard G.652 and G.655 and including multiple network nodes and  flexgrid ROADMs,” he adds. “Building on the success of our TeraFlex CoreChannel  technology, these results represent the next milestone in the development of  high-speed optical networks. The potential to enhance throughput while  minimizing OpEx and operational complexity is immense.” China Mobile announced  the world’s longest-distance 400G optical transmission with help from China’s  ZTE. Using 400G QPSK non-electric relay network transmission, the distance set  a record. The network spans Zhejiang, Jiangxi, Hunan and Guizhou provinces,  involving 45 optical discharge segments, achieving 5616km of  ultra-long-distance real-time network transmission. The trial was completed  to accelerate the development of 400G high-speed optical transmission in the  industry. China Mobile believes that  the construction of a 400G all-optical network will provide strong support for  faster transmission, greater capacity and lower latency of computing network  services. Windstream Wholesale announced  the completion of a live network trial that successfully deployed a 1T wave over 541km across Windstream’s  Intelligent Converged Optical Network (ICON) network between Dallas and Tulsa.  The trial employed Acacia’s CIM 8,  which is powered by the Jannu DSP and is the industry’s first pluggable module in  the ‘High-Performance’ category that represents the next evolution in driving  high-capacity optical connections to expand the network. The team also looped  the circuit to establish an 800G link over a live network measuring 1082km. The 1T trial marked the first use of pluggable modules in the  High-Performance category. Acacia’s modules reduce power consumption by more  than 65% while being more than 70% smaller than traditional network gear. In  addition, the performance gains allow for a significant jump in route coverage  of high line rates such as 800G and  above. “With this trial, Windstream Wholesale and Acacia have broken  through the Terabit limit, once again demonstrating the power and benefit of an  open, disaggregated network,” says Windstream’s chief technology officer Art Nichols. “Our success here  further validates Windstream Wholesale’s early adoption of the latest evolution  advancements of coherent pluggables, and our strong partnership with Acacia  enables us to understand and meet the rapidly evolving bandwidth needs of our  customers,” he adds. “As Windstream Wholesale is demonstrating, our CIM 8 module is breaking the Terabit  threshold with deployable performance on a real network,” says Acacia’s chief  technology officer Benny Mikkelsen.  “By leveraging silicon photonics,  we’ve been able to achieve the power consumption  needed to bring the CIM 8 into a  pluggable form factor, and that is  going to help Windstream cost-effectively meet their customers’ growing  bandwidth demands.” 