Avicena partners with ams OSRAM on production of ultra-low-energy chip-to-chip optical interconnects Avicena Tech Corp of Sunnyvale,  CA, USA (which develops ultra-low-energy optical links based on micro-LEDs) has  partnered with ams OSRAM GmbH of  Premstaetten/Graz, Austria and Munich, Germany to develop high-volume  manufacturing of gallium nitride (GaN)  micro-LED arrays for its LightBundle communication architecture. The need for next-generation computing  power is driven by strong AI/ML (artificial intelligence/  machine learning) and HPC (high-performance  computing) application demand – for products like ChatGPT, DALL-E, autonomous vehicle (AV)  training, and many others. Attempts to scale existing architectures are running  into physical limits, leading to slower-throughput-growth, power-hungry and  hard-to-cool systems. The LightBundle architecture is said to unlock the  performance of xPUs, memory and sensors, removing key bandwidth and proximity  constraints while simultaneously offering an order-of-magnitude reduction in  power consumption. “We acquired our fab from Nanosys in October to accelerate our  development efforts and support low-volume prototype manufacturing,” notes Avicena’s  founder & CEO Bardia Pezeshki. “However, we are addressing very sizeable  markets requiring high-volume manufacturing. We are very pleased to partner  with one of world’s top GaN LED  companies to provide a path to satisfy the expected high volumes required by  our customers, including hyperscale data-center operators and the world’s  leading IC companies,” he adds. “Avicena’s LightBundle technology provides an opportunity for GaN  micro-LEDs to impact numerous key applications including HPC, AI/ML, sensors,  automotive and aerospace,” says Robert Feurle, executive VP & managing director, OS business unit at ams OSRAM.  “As a global leader in GaN LEDs, we  are excited to partner with Avicena to transform these very large and important  markets.” Today’s high-performance ICs use SerDes-based electrical links to  achieve adequate IO density. However, the power consumption and bandwidth  density of these electrical links degrade quickly with length. Conventional optical  communications technologies developed for networking applications have been  impractical for inter-processor and processor–memory interconnects  due to their low bandwidth density, high power consumption, and high  cost. Moreover, co-packaging existing laser sources with hot  application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs)  causes reliability problems unless external laser sources (ELS) are used,  which increases complexity and cost. LightBundle links use densely packed arrays of GaN micro-LEDs to  create highly parallel optical interconnects with typical throughputs of  >1Tb/s at energies of <1pJ/bit. A LightBundle cable uses a highly  multi-core multi-mode fiber to connect a GaN micro-LED transmitter array to a  matching array of silicon photodetectors (PDs). Arrays of hundreds or thousands  of LightBundle’s micro-LEDs and PDs can be integrated with standard CMOS ICs,  enabling the closest integration of optical interconnects with electrical  circuits. In addition to high energy efficiency  and high bandwidth density, these  LightBundle links also exhibit low latency since the modulation format of the  individual links is simple NRZ instead of PAM4 (which is common in many modern  optical links but has the disadvantage of higher power consumption and additional latency). Avicena says that the parallel nature of LightBundle is well  matched to parallel chiplet interfaces like UCIe, OpenHBI and BoW, and can also  be used to extend the reach of compute interconnects like PCIe/CXL and  HBM/DDR/GDDR memory links, as well as various inter-processor interconnects  like NVLink with low power and low latency. Avicena is showing the LightBundle architecture and technology in  booth #3950 at the  Optical Fiber Communication  Conference & Exhibition (OFC 2023) in San Diego, CA, USA (7–9 March). 