Avicena demos optical link operating at record temperature of 235°C In booth #3950 at the Optical Fiber Communication conference  (OFC 2023) in San Diego (7–9 March), Avicena Tech Corp of Sunnyvale, CA, USA  (which develops ultra-low-energy optical links based on micro-LEDs) is demonstrating what is claimed to be  the highest-temperature optical link,  operating at up to 235°C using its LightBundle communication architecture and  technology. The LightBundle architecture is said to unlock the performance of  xPUs, memory and sensors, removing key bandwidth and proximity constraints  while simultaneously offering an order-of-magnitude reduction in power  consumption. Most optical links use edge-emitting lasers or vertical-cavity  surface-emitting lasers (VCSELs), but these typically exhibit dramatic  performance and lifetime reductions at operating temperatures above 85°C and  are thus unable to meet the 5–10-year field lifetime requirements of  many higher-temperature applications. The lifetime limitations of these  communications lasers are related to fundamental properties of the gallium arsenide  (GaAs) and indium phosphide (InP) from which nearly all are made, and thus  have proved very difficult to improve significantly despite decades of effort. In contrast, Avicena’s LightBundle links use micro-LEDs made from  gallium nitride (GaN), and are much less sensitive than GaAs and InP  lasers to operating temperature, specifically regarding performance and  reliability. Combined with high energy efficiency and low cost, these  attributes have allowed GaN LEDs to transform the lighting industry over the  past decade. LightBundle technology is based on arrays of GaN micro-LEDs that  leverage the LED lighting and display ecosystems, and can be integrated  directly onto high performance CMOS ICs. Each micro-LED array is connected via  a multi-core fiber cable to a matching array of CMOS-compatible photodiodes (PDs). Now, Avicena has demonstrated LightBundle links operating at up to  235°C. This brings the benefits of optical interconnects to the harsh  environments encountered in a wide variety of automotive, industrial, aerospace  and defense applications, while also offering other benefits of the LightBundle  architecture, says the firm. “We have already demonstrated the benefits of LightBundle links in  data center, HPC [high-performance computing] and ML/AI [machine learning/artificial intelligence]  with bleeding-edge power and density requirements,” says Chris Pfistner, VP of  sales & marketing. “We have now shown that the unique benefits of the GaN  materials system in micro-LEDs extends to applications with operating  temperatures that have traditionally been beyond the capabilities of optical  interconnects. This is igniting interest among our partners and customers in  numerous market segments in the automotive, defense and aerospace industries.” Today’s high-performance ICs use SerDes-based electrical links to  achieve adequate IO density. However, the power consumption and bandwidth  density of these electrical links degrade quickly with length. Conventional  optical communications technologies developed for networking applications have been  impractical for inter-processor and processor–memory interconnects  due to their low bandwidth density, high power consumption, and high  cost. Moreover, co-packaging existing laser sources with hot  application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs)  causes reliability problems unless external laser sources (ELS) are used,  which increases complexity and cost. “All of this is now changing,” says chief technology officer  & co-founder Rob Kalman. “We are developing ultra-low power, high-density  optical technology based on GaN micro-LED arrays optimized for high-speed  interconnects. Our technology and inventions build on recent display industry  advances and would have been impractical just a few years ago,” he adds. “Our  innovative LightBundle architecture supports hundreds of lanes with per-lane  speeds of 10Gbps or more to enable multi-Tbps links meeting the most demanding  emerging compute interconnect needs. This also frees system designers to  innovate beyond the bounds of today’s proximity constraints.” Avicena says that the low power, high density and low latency of  LightBundle is well matched to chiplet interfaces like UCIe, OpenHBI and BoW,  and can also be used to rethink and enhance system architectures that are  limited by the reach of existing compute interconnects like PCIe/CXL, and  HBM/DDR/GDDR memory links. 