ELPHiC samples high-speed EML at 224Gb/s-per-lane for data centers Fabless firm ElectroPhotonic-IC Inc (ELPHiC)  of Ottawa, Ontario, Canada, which provides indium phosphide (InP)  optoelectronic chips, has  announced sample availability of its high-speed electro-absorption modulator  laser (EML) for data-centers applications  for 800Gb/s and 1.6Tb/s modules. This follows the sampling of its 10G 1271  laser and its integrated PIN-TIA receiver for passive optical network (PON) applications that has showed very high  reliability. ELPHiC has developed an optoelectronic integration technology,  leading to a new generation of InP chips enabling very high-speed modulators  integrated with lasers and electronics. The new process also leads to higher  performance, lower power consumption,  and increased reliability for these EMLs. “By integrating key optical and electronic elements on the same  InP semiconductor substrate with the analog amplification circuitry, we create  an architectural shift in building optics chipsets that significantly improve  performance and power, lower cost, and reduce module form factor,” says CEO Jim Hjartarson. “Our  patented PIN architecture also allows for sensitivity levels comparable to  those of APDs [avalanche photodiodes],” he adds. “This revolution for 800G products will be similar to what we saw  for the 400G products four years  ago: moving from an eight-laser product to a four-laser product per module, leading to the subsequent cost  reduction,” says Christian Ilmi, VP worldwide sales.  “Furthermore, it will enable the module manufacturers to fit eight lasers in a  standard 1.6Tb/s module, which is not feasible today with the current laser  technology,” he adds. “Finally, the promise of monolithic integration of optical devices  and electronics are coming to market,” believes Joe Costello, chairman of the  board. “With the benefits of ELPHiC’s technology, the performance of optical  links in PON, data centers and other  emerging innovative markets will take a giant leap forward”. 