NI acquires SET to accelerate power semi and aerospace/defense test system development Automated test & measurement system firm NI  of Austin, TX, USA has  acquired SET GmbH of Wangen, Germany,  which develops aerospace & defense test systems as well as power semiconductor reliability test. Founded  in 2001, SET has about 100 staff, who join NI. NI funded the transaction through  cash on hand. Together, the firms aim to reduce time to market for  critical, highly differentiated solutions and accelerate  semiconductor-to-transportation supply chain  convergence with power electronic  materials such as silicon carbide  (SiC) and gallium nitride (GaN). In 2020, NI announced a strategic minority investment in SET to  help aerospace & defense companies solve soaring development costs and  integration challenges. The collaboration enhanced a system-on-demand and  model-based test approach delivered to shorten time-to-market schedules, reduce  program risk, integrate labs, and optimize data and assets. This offered mutual  customers more time spent ensuring the quality and safety of future products  and less on building test systems.  These collaborative efforts will continue, with a focus on sustainable  commercial aviation, space launch vehicles,  and urban air mobility applications. The acquisition will expand NI’s opportunity in power semiconductor reliability systems for  automotive applications, a high-growth area of investment. SET has been  innovating new capabilities in the emerging automotive supply chain of power semiconductors since before NI’s initial partnership in  2020. SET’s participation in cross-industry and academic forums on reliability test techniques is said to have made  significant contributions to the understanding of electric vehicle applications for power semiconductors. “The automotive supply chain  is going through a transformation where both OEMs and semiconductor players are  rapidly innovating on new technologies. The ability to adequately specify and  predict how these new technologies behave inside new electric vehicles is critical for performance and  safety,” says Ritu Favre, executive VP  & general manager of NI Business Units. “SET is a clear innovator in this  area as well as an established provider in Avionics testing. NI is a global  leader in automated test & measurement systems. By combining capabilities,  NI and SET can offer more differentiated solutions to customers and grow  together by leveraging NI’s global scale,” she adds. “By offering new and dynamic test procedures, SET ensures the  qualification of cutting-edge silicon carbide  (SiC) power semiconductors for the  automotive industry with high precision and reliability,” says SET’s founder  Frank Heidemann. 