ROHM’s SiC SBDs chosen by Murata for data-center power supply units Japan’s ROHM says  that its high-performance silicon carbide (SiC) Schottky barrier  diodes (SBD) are being used by Murata Manufacturing Group company Murata  Power Solutions to increase performance and reduce the size of power supply  units (PSUs) for data-center applications. ROHM says that its SCS308AH SiC SBDs  feature high surge resistance and short recovery time, enabling  high-speed switching. Murata’s D1U  front-end AC–DC power supply series includes many active units such as the  D1U54P-W-2000-12-HB3C and D1U54P-W-1200-12-HC4PC, highly efficient  power-factor-corrected front-end power supplies that provide 12V main  and 12V/3.3V standby output. Multiple units can share current and operate  in parallel. The power supplies  support hot-plugging and are protected from fault conditions such as  over-temperature, over-current and over-voltage. Also, the low-profile 1U package  makes them suitable for delivering reliable, efficient power to servers,  workstations, storage systems and other 12V distributed power systems  while minimizing the number of required power modules. “By moving to SiC  devices, we are able to develop power supplies with higher efficiency and  higher power density. We can push the switching frequency of SiC devices  higher to reduce the volume of passive components and heatsinks,” remarks Dr Longcheng Tan, senior  electrical engineer and project leader, Murata Power Solutions. “Murata Group has a special  procurement department for evaluating different SiC device vendors and  their products. ROHM was chosen, mainly because their products are reliable.  Samples were also available for prototyping, and ROHM provides prompt support.  Their performance of the SBDs is excellent, and we are now in mass production  with the D1U power supplies. Murata is also using ROHM’s SiC MOSFETs  in 3-phase inverter development projects, and the performance of those SiC  MOSFETs is satisfying,” he adds. “We are the  leading company in SiC power semiconductors and have achieved a  significant technological lead in this field along with the provision of power solutions  combined with gate driver ICs,” claims Jay Barrus, president, ROHM Semiconductor USA LLC. “Together with Murata Power Solutions, we want to  further improve the energy efficiency of power supply systems by  using the full potential of SiC technology for industrial and data  infrastructure.” 