Ranovus demos 800G Ethernet interoperable link to scale AMD adaptive SoCs for AI/ML Ranovus Inc of Ottawa, Ontario, Canada (which  develops and manufactures multi-terabit photonics interconnect solutions for  data-center and communications networks) has announced interoperability of AMD’s Versal adaptive SoCs with  the co-packaged Odin 800G direct-drive optical engine and third-party 800G DR8+ re-timed pluggable  modules. The interoperability demonstration is part of the Optical Fiber Communication Conference &  Exposition (OFC 2023) in San Diego, CA, USA (7–9 March) and highlights the versatility of Ranovus’s Odin portfolio for artificial intelligence/machine learning (AI/ML)  and communications applications. Ranovus’ Odin is a low-latency, high-density, protocol-agnostic and  standards-based optical engine that delivers massive optical interconnect  bandwidth with what is claimed to be industry-leading cost and power  efficiency. Built on GlobalFoundries’ Fotonix monolithic RF/CMOS  silicon photonics (SiPh) platform, Odin incorporates Ranovus’s proprietary RF CMOS, silicon photonics,  laser and advanced packaging technologies for volume manufacturing. Odin  is suited to next-generation data-center architectures built on  co-packaged optics (CPO), near-packaged optics (NPO), and pluggable  OSFP/QSFP-DD/OSFP XD optical modules. “We announced the first generation of our Odin optical  interconnect at OFC 2022 for proprietary AI/ML applications. We are  thrilled to showcase our standards-based Odin optical interconnect product with  5pJ/bit for a direct-drive CPO solution,” says Dr Christoph Schulien, head  of Systems and High-Speed IC R&D. “Its inherent versatility enables  hyperscale data-center providers to drastically reduce power consumption and  optimize density and cost as they deploy novel hybrid data-center architectures  in response to the insatiable growth in AI/ML workloads,” he adds. “Ranovus’ demonstration of  interoperability between our Versal adaptive SoCs co-packaged with  Odin 800G direct-drive CPO 2.0 and third-party 800G DR8+ re-timed  pluggable modules underlines the flexibility and scalability of Ranovus’ technology,” comments Yohan Frans,  VP engineering at AMD. “We are proud of our collaboration with Ranovus in demonstrating the performance and  versatility of monolithic silicon photonics interconnects as data-center and  5G customers deploy highly efficient and cost-effective systems for  next-generation workloads,” he adds. “Ranovus’ demonstration of  interoperability between CPO and pluggable modules is a key proof point  that their interconnect technology supports the flexibility and scalability  with the lowest power consumption sought by hyper-scalers as they optimize  their data centers for AI/ML workloads,” comments Vladimir Kozlov, founder  & CEO of LIGHTCOUNTING. At OFC, the Odin optical interconnect CPO, NPO and 800Gbps  DR8+ pluggable module portfolio is being demonstrated at Ranovus’ booth #2019 and at  GlobalFoundries’ booth #5216. Also, Ranovus  is participating in panel discussions on ‘Advanced Packaging  Technologies for Optical Modules’ (8 March, 8am) and ‘Enabling  Next Generation Co-Packaging Solutions’ (9 March, 12:15pm). 