Lumentum introduces full-band tunable optical transceivers In booth  #3415 at the Optical Fiber  Communication conference (OFC 2023) in San Diego (5–9  March), Lumentum Holdings Inc of San Jose, CA, USA is highlighting its portfolio of  full-band optical tunable transceivers in a live product demonstration,  including 10G optical transport network (OTN) SFP+, 25G T-SFP28 and 100G  coherent CFP2-DCO bi-directional (BiDi) transceiver modules. Driven by the  evolving needs of 5G deployments and distributed access architectures (DAA),  full-band tunable optical transceivers offer compelling advantages compared  with fixed-wavelength transceivers. “With our  latest products, we simplify, expand and deliver cost-effective solutions  essential for growth at the networkedge, including for telecommunications  carriers in the cable MSO and 5G space as they speed up connectivity in  their deployments,” says Justin Abbott, director of product line management,  Transmission. Lumentum’s 25G  T-SFP28 product incorporates MSA-compliant SmartTunable technology to simplify  field deployment tasks by adopting self-tuning algorithms. It leverages  the firm’s substantial installed base of manufacturing capacity to meet the  rapid growth anticipated from 5G applications. The 25G TSFP28 is expected  to be in production and   available to customers by end-March. Lumentum is  also introducing what it says are the first 100G CFP2-DCO BiDi and 10G OTN  modules to address capacity and reach challenges within DAA rollouts. The 100G  CFP2-DCO BiDi is a unique product that allows capacity increases that utilize  only a single fiber. The 10G OTN SFP+ provides a solution that can reach up to  100km, compared with other solutions that are limited to 80km. Increasing the  span length allows network operators to realize significant cost savings in  architectures where long spans are needed, such as in rural broadband  deployment. Lumentum is  demonstrating its full-band tunable optical transceiver modules for dense wavelength-division  multiplexing (DWDM) applications, which meet the rapidly evolving demands of  the network edge. These modules can be used in extended operational and environmental  applications. The demonstration includes: 