Record 400G transmission across 2400km Corning TXF fiber with Infinera’s ICE-X QSFP-DD coherent pluggable Infinera Corp of Sunnyvale, CA, USA, a  vertically integrated manufacturer of digital optical network systems, has delivered record 400Gb/s single-wavelength  transmission with its ICE-X 400G QSFP-DD  intelligent coherent pluggable solution across 2400km of Corning’s TXF optical  fiber (twice the previous record distance). The demonstration by Infinera and Corning Inc highlights the wide  range of applications that can be addressed with this cost-effective and  power-efficient solution, better enabling network operators to meet growing  bandwidth demands. The demonstration featured Infinera’s ICE-X 400G intelligent  coherent pluggable solution hosted in UfiSpace’s 400G disaggregated core and  edge routers across 2400km of Corning’s TXF fiber, an ultra-low-loss,  silica-core fiber with large effective area. The demonstration leveraged the  features supported by Infinera’s line of ICE-X intelligent coherent pluggables,  including integrated system-level intelligence, programmable modulation,  tunable baud rate, efficient  spectrum utilization, and 0dBm  launch power. “This achievement underscores the value of Infinera’s fully  vertically integrated and highly programmable line of ICE-X pluggables,” says Infinera’s  chief technology officer Robert  Maher. “It also highlights the value of integrated system-level intelligence in  enabling industry-leading point-to-point ZR+ performance even when deployed in  third-party elements. ICE-X enables network operators to leverage  cost-efficient and power-efficient pluggable solutions across a broad range of  network applications without sacrificing performance, manageability, or network  resiliency,” he adds. “We are pleased to collaborate with Infinera once again to prove  how combined leading-edge technologies can work together to maximize capacity  and reach,” says Sharon Bois, division VP,  product line & marketing,  Corning Optical Fiber and Cable.  “Our TXF fiber enables network  operators to transmit more data over longer distances and help connect the  unconnected, all while lowering their overall network costs.” This data transmission is being demonstrated at the Optical Fiber Communication Conference &  Exposition (OFC 2023) in San Diego, CA, USA (7-9 March) in Infinera’s booth (#4126) using  its ICE-X 400G XR intelligent  pluggables hosted in UfiSpace’s 400G disaggregated core and edge router over  2400km of Corning TXF optical fiber. 