Arelion and Infinera set benchmark for 400G ZR+ deployments in live network field trial Infinera Corp of Sunnyvale, CA, USA, a  vertically integrated manufacturer of digital optical network systems, and Arelion of Stockholm, Sweden have  announced record-setting transmission of 400Gb/s wavelengths using a QSFP-DD  pluggable coherent transceiver over 1800km of SMF-28 fiber in a live production  network. The milestone in point-to-point optical networking was achieved by  leveraging Infinera’s ICE-X 400G ZR+ intelligent pluggable coherent transceiver  across Arelion’s production transmission network on routes between Dallas,  Memphis and Chattanooga. The field trial also demonstrated the powerful programmability of  Infinera’s ICE-X intelligent pluggable coherent solution. By adjusting the  modulation of the optical signal in the same pluggable coherent solution, the  firms also demonstrated long-distance performance at 300Gb/s and 200Gb/s using  a QSFP-DD pluggable. These achievements were made possible by leveraging  Arelion’s open and disaggregated networking approach over its live network with  concurrently deployed wavelengths, including those of third-party solution  providers. Disaggregation will enable Arelion to continue to integrate the  latest optical pluggable components to dynamically scale its network and  provide its customers with cost-efficient, high-capacity bandwidth services  over long distances. “We are pleased to once again partner with Infinera,” says Arelion’s  senior network architect Georgios  Tologlou. “We were early investors in optical pluggable components to drive  demonstrable value and cost-efficiency for our customers. Lab trials with  perfect fiber are one thing. But we are not afraid to test these pluggables in  live networks over the same fiber we’re using for live traffic, so we were  happy to demonstrate the real-world potential of Infinera’s new coherent  pluggable technology when implemented through Arelion’s open and disaggregated  network architecture,” he adds. “Through collaboration with Arelion, this record-breaking  achievement represents a significant milestone in the evolution of coherent optical  solutions,” believes Tom Burns, general manager  of the Optical Modules and Coherent Solutions Group at Infinera. “The trial  demonstrates the level of performance that can be achieved in a QSFP-DD form factor powered by Infinera’s ICE-X  technology and coupled with the power of open optical networking principles  applied in Arelion’s live network.” 