CSA Catapult appoints Nick Singh as CTO Compound Semiconductor Applications (CSA) Catapult (headquartered in Newport, South Wales) has appointed Nick Singh as its new  chief technology officer (CTO). Singh will lead the strategic and technical direction of  CSA Catapult’s four key technology areas — power electronics, RF and  microwave, photonics and advanced packaging — as well as supporting the overall  strategy of the organization. Picture:  CSA Catapult’s new CTO Nick Singh. Established in  2017 by UK Government agency Innovate UK (which provides funding and support  for business innovation as part of UK Research and Innovation), CSA Catapult is  a not-for-profit organization focused on accelerating the adoption of  compound semiconductors for three key applications (the road to  Net Zero, future telecoms and intelligent sensing). It works across  the UK in a range of industry sectors from automotive to medical, and from  digital communications to aerospace. Singh began his career in electronics and semiconductors in the  mid-1990s in France before moving to  UK-based Oxford Instruments Plasma Technology where, for over a  decade, he developed equipment and processes for epitaxy, deposition and  etching of silicon, high-k dielectrics and compound semiconductors. 
  He continued his career in electronics at Scienta as  group CTO, responsible for technology and applications developments in  x-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), graphene, organic  light-emitting diodes (OLEDs) and plastic electronics. He also spent eight years as CTO of a start-up, which he helped  scale up to deliver innovative net-zero solutions and oversaw the company’s  expansion overseas. Most recently, Singh was CTO of PhotonFirst in the Netherlands, a  pioneer of photonic integrated circuit (PIC) sensing and advanced  packaging in markets such as aerospace, medical, automotive and energy. Throughout his career, Singh has worked collaboratively with UK  and European research institutions and innovation centers on technology  subsidies and funded projects. Singh has a degree in Electrical and Electronics Engineering as  well as a PhD in Plasma Physics from University Paul Sabatier in Toulouse.  He is a Fellow and Chartered Engineer of the UK’s Institute of Engineering  & Technology (IET) and has authored and co-authored 50 papers and received  four patents in semiconductors. Singh is also a thermodynamics expert with the  Carbon Trust. “The technologies that will underpin our future advances in  electrification, intelligent sensing and telecoms are being built using  compound semiconductors, so it is extremely exciting to be able to shape  the technological capabilities of the Catapult to meet these important  challenges,” comments Singh. “We will play an integral role in supporting new  supply chains and developing our technologies alongside clusters of  expertise across the country, which will help us deliver on our ambition to  position the UK as a global leader in developing and commercializing  applications for compound semiconductors,” he adds. “Nick’s wealth of knowledge, experience and leadership both here  in the UK and across Europe will be an invaluable asset to the Catapult and I  look forward to working with him closely on shaping our strategic and technical  direction as we look ahead to the next five years of our journey,” says  CSA Catapult’s CEO Martin McHugh. 