Alfalume samples 1.3μm high-power uncooled InAs/GaAs QD DFB lasers In partnership with quantum dot (QD) diode laser manufacturer  Innolume GmbH of Dortmund, Germany, Alfalume Inc of Santa Clara, CA, USA  has announced sample availability of its O-band high-power indium arsenide/gallium arsenide  (InAs/GaAs) quantum dot  distributed feedback (DFB) lasers, which offer what is claimed to be  best-in-class output power, wall-plug efficiency and temperature  range as well as fundamentally better reliability of QD lasers compared  with quantum well (QW) counterparts. Aflalume’s QD lasers  are said to provide significant benefits for high-speed datacom transceivers,  including record high power and conversion efficiency at temperatures  above 85℃ without requiring thermoelectric coolers, optical-isolator-free  operation, and lower cost due to significantly reduced component costs  and better assembly yields. “Our QD laser technology matches the operation temperature of photonics  to the highest operating temperature of modern electronics,” says Alfalume’s CEO Alexey  Kovsh. “There is no other technology  today which can provide the power level of O-band DFB lasers above 200mW with  power efficiency of 20% at 105°C with the ability to operate  efficiently up to 150°C,” he claims. “Our uncooled lasers are ideal for pluggable transceivers offering the  highest efficiency at high temperatures.”  Picture: Dependence of laser output  power on drive current. The QD DFB lasers offer  the following performance characteristics: For 800G/1600G-DR8  modules, a single QD laser can be used for all eight channels, resulting in  lower component counts, better assembly yield and lower-cost optical  transceivers. QD lasers are suitable for both silicon photonics and  all new electro-optic (EO) modulation technologies including thin-film lithium niobate (TFLN) and barium titanate (BTO)/silicon. In addition,  QD lasers are suitable for remote laser modules for co-packaged optics (CPO) and light  detection & ranging (LiDAR) applications.  Picture: Reference optical transceiver  design OSFP-800G-DR8 by Axalume Inc. 

  “The power of a  single Innolume laser allows us to have a significant power margin for our DR8  lithium niobate  modulators,” comments Xinlun Cai, CEO of China-based Liobate Technologies Ltd. “This enables better manufacturing yield and  lower-cost transceivers.” At the Optical Fiber Communication Conference (OFC 2023)  in San Diego (5-9 March), Alfalume is exhibiting in booth #3250 and presenting at the  following events: 