QSFP-DD MSA to extend module bandwidth to 1.6Tbps At the Optical Fiber Communications Conference (OFC 2023)  in San Diego, CA, USA, the Quad Small Form Factor  Pluggable Double Density Multi  Source Agreement (QSFP-DD  MSA) has announced plans to develop a new specification extending the bandwidth  of the form factor to 1.6Tbps. The new specification will leverage the  industry’s focus on next-generation systems that will utilize 200Gbps serial  PAM4 SerDes technology currently under development. The new specification will maintain the form factor’s eight  lanes to provide an aggregate bandwidth capacity of 1.6Tbps. The 1.6Tbps module  port will maintain backward compatibility with the entire family of QSFP and  QSFP-DD modules and cables. This will provide the high degree of flexibility  that end users and system designers have come to expect from QSFP and  QSFP-DD, easing end user’s migration to the industry’s speed transitions.  The new specification will also maintain the QSFP-DD’s riding heatsink feature  that enables system designers the ability to efficiently cool higher-power  modules that may be required in next-generation equipment. The new QSFP-DD1600 specification will target the existing port density  enjoyed by systems utilizing QSFP-DD today and meet the faceplate bandwidth  that is expected from next-generation ASICs in the future. “QSFP-DD’s backwards compatibility has been critical to our  operational approach to upgrading the network,” says Jamie Gaudette, partner  network engineering manager at Microsoft, “We encourage the MSA’s work on  QSFP-DD1600,” he adds. “The system design flexibility that QSFP-DD enables greatly  reduces the challenges in building systems with high-power modules,” says MSA  co-chair Mark Nowell. “The riding heatsink, besides enabling backwards  compatibility, is an asset to system designers.” QSFP-DD continues to lead market adoption for 400G across  applications and is set to continue to do so at 800G. This new specification  will extend that to 1.6Tbps with broad support from component manufacturers to  end users. The QSFP-DD MSA is supported by more than 60 companies  addressing the technical challenges of achieving a double-density interface and  ensuring mechanical, electrical, thermal and signal-integrity interoperability  for the next generation of networking equipment. 