Infinera unveils coherent optical subsystems and pluggable optical engines Infinera Corp of Sunnyvale, CA, USA, a  vertically integrated manufacturer of digital optical network systems, has unveiled a new portfolio of coherent  optical subsystems and coherent pluggable optical engines  designed to help network operators cost-effectively keep up with the relentless  growth in bandwidth demand while streamlining operations and reducing carbon  footprint. The new solutions include a line of high-performance transmit–receive  optical sub-assemblies (TROSAs), programmable digital signal processors (DSPs),  and a line of high-performance, intelligent pluggable optical transceivers. Infinera’s line of in-house-developed optical subsystems leverages  a building-block approach whereby subsystems can be mixed and matched flexibly,  maximizing the value of each element, providing more solution options for  customers, and simplifying integration into in-house and third-party optical  engines. Building-block  components include: Based on Infinera’s vertically integrated subsystem building blocks, Infinera’s line of ICE-X coherent  pluggable solutions is designed to support a diverse set of network  applications, including point-to-point and point-to-multipoint applications in  DCI, access, metro and regional networks. In addition to record-setting  performance, Infinera’s ICE-X line of pluggables supports a unique level of intelligence,  automation and programmability to enable network operators to deploy coherent  solutions more effectively in routers, switches and servers without  compromising on performance, visibility or network resiliency. Additionally,  with support for 100Gb/s+ single-fiber bidirectional configurations and PON  overlays, ICE-X can unleash the potential of existing fiber assets, enabling  new revenue-generating high-speed services. Included in the line of ICE-X  pluggables are 100G XR, 400G XR, 400G ZR+  and 800G ZR/ZR+ modules. All products in the Infinera ICE-X portfolio adhere to the open  and collaborative approach to the management of pluggable coherent optical  engines defined by the Open XR Forum’s Management Architecture  Specifications. “There is significant growth in demand for increased capacity and  capabilities of coherent technology, both in the core and closer to the network  edge, driving the need for new innovations in coherent solutions optimized for  these types of traffic patterns and deployment scenarios,” says Tom Burns,  general manager of the Optical Modules & Coherent Solutions Group at Infinera. “Our  portfolio of programmable TROSAs, coherent DSPs and ICE-X pluggables provides  network operators with connectivity solutions that are compact, efficient,  programmable and streamlined in operations without sacrificing network  integrity, visibility or reliability.” Infinera’s lines of TROSAs, DSPs and coherent pluggable  transceivers will all be independently commercially available. Available now  are ICE-X 100G- and 400G-based subsystems and pluggables, with the 800G-based  solutions beginning to become available in first-half 2024. Infinera’s latest generation of pluggable optical transceivers and  subsystems are being showcased at the Optical Fiber  Communications conference (OFC 2023)  in San Diego, CA, USA (5-9 March). 