Casela demos external laser source module for 1310nm and CWDM4 wavelengths Casela Technologies of Palo Alto, CA, USA —  a vertically integrated semiconductor laser company delivering high-performance  laser technology, products and platforms for datacoms infrastructure and sensing —  has launched multi-fiber external laser source  (ELS) modules operating at 1310nm and CWDM4 wavelengths. The module uses blind mate optical and electrical connectors  supporting OIF’s (Optical Internetworking Forum’s) external laser  small-form-factor pluggable (ELSFP) implementation agreement. The module will be ‘live’ at the OIF Co-Packaging (CPO) Interoperability  Demonstration (booth #5101) at the  Optical Fiber Conference (OFC 2023) in San Diego,  CA, USA (5-9 March). In addition,  Casela is providing the light source  for OIF’s joint CEI and co-packaging demo, whereby a linearly driven optical  module is powered optically by an ELSFP through polarization-maintaining fiber.  Casela’s ELSFP is part of the Front panel  I/O, and ELSFP Connectivity Options demo to show multi-vendor compatibility. These uncooled ELSFP modules deliver greater than 100mW into each  of eight polarization-maintaining fibers to power up integrated,  high-data-capacity silicon photonics  systems such as CPO and SOC-based artificial intelligence  (AI) accelerators. The modules use Casela’s recently announced 200mW  uncooled DFB lasers that operate with >20% power conversion efficiency up to 70 oC module  temperature. These high-power, high-efficiency lasers eliminate the need for a  thermoelectric cooler (TEC), delivering best-in-class low-power consumption for  an external laser source. Modules  can be specified with 2 x DR4, 2 x FR4 or other WDM wavelength combinations.  These lasers are available for sampling now, with production commencing in  fourth-quarter 2023. Working with OIF, Casela plans to help accelerate the adoption of  high optical power, high lane count and high-speed connectivity in  fully integrated modules. Also at OFC, OIF is hosting its largest ever demonstration of  multi-vendor interoperability, featuring four fundamental technology areas:  400ZR optics; co-packaging architectures; Common Electrical I/O (CEI) channels; and Common Management Interface Specification (CMIS)  implementations. The demos are both live and static at OIF’s booth #5101. 