NS Nanotech opens Canadian R&D center in Montréal NS Nanotech Inc of Ann Arbor, MI, USA has formed NS Nanotech  Canada in Montréal, Québec, an R&D center focused on enabling the  commercialization of next-generation nano-LED technologies for televisions,  mobile phones, smart watches, augmented-reality headsets, and other  applications. Leveraging exclusive licenses to a portfolio of patents owned by  McGill University, the research center will further NS Nanotech’s  long-term mission to develop the first efficient sub-micron-scale nano-LEDs. NS Nanotech is developing next-generation technologies for  large displays, micro-displays, and ultraviolet UVC disinfection applications  including COVID-19 prevention. NS Nanotech Canada signed an initial  agreement with McGill University to start collaboration with research  scientists there including professor Songrui Zhao, said to be one of the world’s  leading nano-LED researchers. Zhao holds numerous patents and is advancing the  state of the art in molecular beam epitaxy (MBE) and other  foundational technologies designed to enable orders-of-magnitude improvements  in costs and efficiency over existing LEDs. “The $120bn global display market is based on 20th-century  technologies limited by several major shortfalls in cost and performance that  NS Nanotech is working to overcome,” says NS Nanotech’s CEO &  co-founder Dr Seth Coe-Sullivan. “McGill University is a global center of  excellence in nanotechnologies that confront these shortfalls head on, and  together we have the potential to disrupt massive emerging global markets for  multi-color micro-LED displays and UVC-LED disinfection solutions.” Derrick Wong MSc-MBA, a part-time lecturer and mentor at McGill  University, is the newly appointed chief operating officer at NS Nanotech  Canada, and the senior research scientist is Dr David Laleyan, a  McGill graduate who received his Ph.D. from the University of Michigan in 2020.  The firm intends to add several additional researchers this year for continuing  collaborations with McGill University in 2023 and beyond. NS Nanotech’s expansion in Montréal has been supported by Montréal  International and Investissement Québec. “The semiconductor industry is highly strategic, and we are proud  to contribute to its growth in Greater Montréal by supporting NS Nanotech’s  Montréal project,” says Alexandre Lagarde, VP, foreign investment at  Montréal International. “The new research center demonstrates the unique appeal  that our researchers and post-secondary institutions, such as McGill  University, represent for investors developing key projects. Furthermore, our  highly qualified talent pool, particularly in STEMs and artificial  intelligence, are key to the development of nanotechnologies,” he adds. 