Green exciton emission from nanowire micro-LEDs University of Michigan in the USA reports  high-efficiency green emission from micron-scale light-emitting diodes (LEDs)  using bottom-up growth of nanowires, allowing strain and quantum engineering [Ayush Pandey et al, Nano Letters, published online 2  February 2023]. The researchers claim record peak external  quantum efficiency (EQE) and wall-plug efficiency (WPE), compared with devices  with a similar active region area. Such  devices are being developed for next-generation displays, virtual/augmented reality, and ultrahigh-speed optical interconnects. The Michigan researchers believe that the  higher efficiencies are due to excitonic, rather than free electron-hole,  recombination. The team explains: “In an excitonic LED,  electroluminescence emission originates from a bound state of an electron and hole, instead of recombination from free  charge carriers. Due to the strong  Coulombic interaction between electrons and holes, the negative impact of Shockley–Read–Hall recombination on the performance of an  excitonic LED is significantly reduced.” In conventional indium gallium nitride  (InGaN) LEDs excitonic recombination is hindered by the presence of strong  electric fields arising from  strain-dependent and spontaneous charge-polarization contrasts of InGaN and  GaN. The electric fields tend to tear apart  electron–hole excitons, and further even reduce the ability of free holes and  electrons to recombine into photons. These behaviors are referred to as the  quantum-confined Stark effect (QCSE). Further optimization may be possible in  terms of the strain state, composition and thickness of the InGaN active region in the nanowires along with the  dimensions of the nanowires themselves. The team suggests that “micro-LEDs with  emission across the entire visible spectrum could be grown, with efficiencies  approaching to, or better than, commercial broad-area LEDs.” To grow the nanowires, the Michigan  researchers first patterned a titanium mask on an N-polar GaN-on-sapphire  template using electron-beam lithography. The titanium was opened to expose the  underlying GaN by reactive-ion etching. Before nanowire growth, the mask  surface was nitrided with nitrogen plasma exposure. Comprising n-GaN, active region, and p-GaN (Figure 1), the nanowires were grown via molecular beam epitaxy (MBE). The active region was grown at lower temperature than the  two contact layers. Also, the researchers targeted green emission from the  InGaN layers of the active region with an In/Ga flux ratio of 0.6. The active  region consisted of 6 pairs of InGaN/GaN multiple quantum disks (MQDs).  Figure 1: (a) Schematic of N-polar  InGaN/GaN nanowire excitonic LED heterostructure. (b) Representative scanning  electron microscope (SEM) image of  nanowire array. (c) Photoluminescence (PL) spectrum of nanowire array. The growth resulted in hexagonal vertical  nanowires with flat tops, which are desired for the fabrication of high-efficiency  devices. Ga-polar nanowire growth tends to result in tapered structures. Also,  the growth of nanowires from the bottom up avoids the sidewall damage of top-down  methods where the nanowires are formed from etching standard materials.
        The photoluminescence from the material  peaked in the green region of the spectrum. The peak was quite broad with some  shoulders, which the researchers attribute to “Fabry–Perot modes  formed with the substrate”. The team comments: “The luminescence  spectrum is relatively broad, due to variations in indium composition of the  quantum disks”. Analysis using scanning transmission electron  microscopy and x-ray energy-dispersive element mapping suggested ‘faceting’  near the sidewalls of the nanowires. This refers to preferred growth of the  layer parallel to semi-polar planes rather than the c-plane. One result was  higher indium incorporation near the sidewall. Also, it is to be expected that  there is reduced strain in the semi-polar faceted regions, resulting in reduced  QCSE and hence tighter exciton binding.  Faceting was more prominent in smaller-diameter nanowires, around 125nm  (array/device A) compared with 165nm (B). Micro-LEDs were fabricated by atomic layer  deposition (ALD) of 65nm aluminium oxide  coating the nanowires; etching back to expose the p-GaN contact layer;  plasma-enhanced chemical vapor deposition  (PECVD) of 500nm silicon dioxide  insulation; and etching of vias for deposition of the metal n- and p-type  electrodes. The n-electrodes were titanium/gold, while  p-electrodes were nickel/gold/indium tin oxide (ITO). The light emission was arranged  through the sapphire backside by coating the top side  with a mirror consisting of silver/titanium/aluminium/nickel/gold. The micro-LED devices were prepared for  testing by thinning the sapphire backside, and dicing into small pieces. The  current injection area was around 750nmx750nm.  Figure 2: (a) Current density versus  voltage. Inset: SEM image of representative injection opening. (b) Light output power versus current density. Inset: image of  strong green emission from submicron device. (c) External quantum efficiency (EQE) and (d) wall-plug efficiency  (WPE) versus current density. 