Casela launches 1310nm CW-DFB lasers for silicon photonics-based transceivers Casela Technologies of Palo  Alto, CA, USA — a vertically integrated semiconductor laser company  delivering high-performance laser technology, products and platforms for  datacoms infrastructure worldwide — has launched its 1310nm-band high-power,  continuous-wave (CW) distributed feedback (DFB) lasers, which have what are  claimed to be record high-power conversion efficiency and optical powers for  silicon photonics-based transceivers. Digital transformation, 5G, passive optical network (PON) and  cable fiber initiatives continue to drive bandwidth growth for optical  communications. East–west traffic inside data centers  continues to increase bandwidth demand year-over-year at 40–50%.  400G is the current state of the art, but there is already a  roadmap for 800G and then 1.6T. Silicon photonic-based transceivers are  the leading solution for transceivers used inside data centers and for  client optics in service provider networks, says Casela. These optical  transceivers and new co-packaged systems-on-chip (SoC) architectures require  very efficient, high-power, low-noise lasers at various wavelengths. With  increased baud rate and lane count (4x or 8x) and bandwidth growth  from 400G to 1.6T, optical power requirements have increased. Casela’s new 1mm- and 2mm-long DFB lasers achieve 125mW to 200mW  optical power when uncooled and 300mW to 400mW when cooled, respectively, enabling  the use of a single laser for DR4 and DR8 transceivers. High  optical powers are achieved at what are claimed to be industry-leading  power conversion efficiencies of 30% when cooled and 20% when uncooled,  operating at the maximum rated power. Key features include large modes with  near-circular profiles that improve coupling efficiency to fibers or  silicon-based waveguides and reliable operation proven during accelerated  life testing. The same high-efficiency, high-power laser design is also  available at other WDM, LAN-WDM and CWDM4 wavelengths. At OFC on 6 March (4:30-4:45pm PST,  Session M4C.1, Room 3), the technical details of the lasers are being  presented by co-founder & chief technology officer Milind Gokhale, Casela  in ‘Record high-efficiency high-power uncooled 1.31μm CW-DFB lasers’. The new laser, along with Casela’s other products, is on display  in booth #1929 at the Optical Fiber Communication Conference (OFC 2023) in San Diego,  CA, USA (5–9 March). “Casela was founded by industry veterans to focus on an innovative  path to higher laser powers and efficiency demanded by new requirements in  data centers and system-on-chip (SOC) applications,” says CEO  Dr Bo Lu. “With the demonstration and publication of our  industry-leading laser results at OFC 2023, we are announcing our new  laser platform and products for transceiver and co-packaged optics  applications,” he adds. “Casela’s high-output laser performance has been  validated by multiple customers and will be available in high-volume production  in second-half 2023.” 