Smartphone shipments to fall 1.1% in 2023, rather than prior forecast of 2.8% growth Due to a slower recovery than previously expected as the market  continues to suffer from weak demand and ongoing macroeconomic challenges, International  Data Corporation (IDC) has revised its forecast for worldwide smartphone shipments in 2023 from the 2.8% growth in  the prior forecast to a decline of 1.1% to 1.19 billion units, according  to the firm’s latest Worldwide Quarterly Mobile Phone Tracker forecast. Real market recovery is not expected to occur until 2024, when IDC  expects 5.9% year-on-year growth followed by low single-digit growth leading to  a five-year compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 2.6%.  “With increasing costs and ongoing challenges in consumer demand,  OEMs are quite cautious about 2023. While there is finally some good news  coming out of China with the recent reopening, there is still a lot of  uncertainty and lack of trust, which results in a cautious outlook,” says  Nabila Popal research director with IDC’s Mobility and Consumer Device  Trackers. “However, we remain convinced the global market will return to growth  in 2024 once we are past these short-term challenges as there is a significant  pent up refresh cycle in developed markets as well as room for smartphone  penetration in emerging markets to fuel stable long-term growth.” 5G continues to grow and will account for 62% of smartphones  shipped worldwide in 2023, rising to 83% by 2027. Market momentum also  continues to build around foldable phones as the segment is expected to grow to  nearly 22 million units this year – a 50% increase while the overall  market contracts. This segment will continue to grow as costs decrease and more  OEMs launch this form factor, as we have seen this week with multiple  Android foldable launches at Mobile World Congress. Finally, a smartphone  average selling price (ASP) that saw rapid growth over the last few years  (from $334 in 2019 to $415 in 2022) will begin to decline, starting in 2023,  and is expected to reach $376 by end of the forecast period. “2023 is set to be a year of two halves, with the first half  piggybacking off the downhill slide from the fourth quarter of 2022,” says  Anthony Scarsella, research director with IDC’s Mobility and Consumer Device  Trackers. “Most regions will face double-digit declines in the first half of  the year, make a turn into positive territory in the third quarter, and then  boost into double-digit growth in the last quarter of the year,” he adds. “We  expect the influx of premium flagships that typically launch in the third and  fourth quarters will keep the full-year decline from being worse.” 