SweGaN to build new HQ and GaN-on-SiC epiwafer production facility SweGaN AB of Linköping,  Sweden, which manufactures custom gallium nitride on silicon carbide  (GaN-on-SiC) epitaxial wafers (based on a unique growth technology) for  telecom, satellite, defense and power electronics applications, is to build a  new headquarters including a high-capacity semiconductor production facility in  Linköping. The new facility will be built at the Innovative Materials Arena (IMA), a cluster for  innovative materials located in Linköping in Östergötland – a region renowned for its progressive materials  industries. Completion of the project is planned for  the end of second-quarter 2023 with deployment of the company’s manufacturing  processes to produce GaN-on-SiC engineered epiwafers in high volume to achieve  economies of scale. The facility has been designed to accommodate production  capacity up to 40,000 100mm/150mm epiwafers per year. This significant scaling initiative is  backed by a Series A financing round  announced in September 2022, and is closely aligned with the accelerated global  demands for GaN-on-SiC epiwafers used in 5G base-stations, defense radars, low-orbit satellite  communications, and power switches  for electric vehicles (EVs). “The new SweGaN HQ and production facility  provides substantial flexibility and means to support the company’s expansion  during its growth journey – in both capacity and space,” says chief operating officer  Henrik Tölander. “This  major step strengthens SweGaN’s deep roots in Sweden and will bring the entire  company together under one roof,” he adds. “We also aim to create a stimulating  and inspiring work environment for young talents, materials specialists, and  all strategic roles alike to join our exciting growth journey and build the  company with us,” continues Tölander. “A new order is being established for  semiconductor supply chains, and we  are striving to be a go-to strategic partner for our customers in this new  era,” says CEO Jr-Tai Chen. “Harnessing the challenges and opportunities  associated with the new era of semiconductor manufacturing, SweGaN’s vision has  become clearer than ever – to build a sustainable, smart and green  manufacturing for the materials that can enhance connectivity, security, and  mobility of the future.” 