Scintil demos first single-chip 100GHz DFB comb laser source In booth #3351 at the Optical Fiber Communication Conference (OFC 2023) in San Diego,  CA, USA (5–9 March), Scintil Photonics of Grenoble, France and Toronto,  Canada, a fabless developer of silicon photonic integrated circuits (integrated laser arrays, 800Gb/s  transmitters and receivers, tunable transmitters and receivers, as well as  optical I/O for near-chip and  chip-chip communication), is demonstrating its latest technology, a  single-chip multi-port 100GHz distributed feedback (DFB) comb laser source for  high-performance computing (HPC) and artificial intelligence (AI)  applications. The SCINTIL Comb Laser Source is said to  be the first fully integrated single chip that achieves 100GHz frequency  spacing (half to one-quarter of the spacing available today). One of its key  advantages is its very narrow controlled channel spacing, an important capability  for increasing the number of optical carriers in a single fibre. “Increasing computing capacity requires  connecting larger networks of computing units with higher transmission rates,”  says CEO Sylvie Menezo. “To achieve this with sustainable energy efficiency,  fiber -optic transmission links are used with multiple optical carriers  multiplexed on one single fiber,” she adds. “We have succeeded in implementing  a comb laser source with only 100GHz spacing between each optical carrier. This  offers at least twice the number of optical carriers compared to what appears  to be available today, and therefore enables doubling the transmission speed.  Leading customers are currently evaluating our solution.” The increasing demand for high-performance  computing and AI applications has led to the need for faster and more efficient  optical interconnects. The SCINTIL 100GHz-Comb Laser Source enables the use of  uncooled dense wavelength division multiplexing (DWDM) links in  short-reach transmissions, with optical carriers twice as dense (100GHz versus  200GHz spacing). “The Scintil integrated team did an  excellent job at every step, from the design of the chip to the packaging and  the electronics for a complete solution, with additional locking functions,”  says Menezo. “Thanks to our CMOS commercial foundry, we anticipate ramping up  volume by Q4/2024. We think that our technology will be a game-changer in the  field of interconnects for high-performance computing and AI applications.” The DFB comb laser source is designed to  fuel optics co-packaged with host ASICs. Features include: Demonstrators are already available and  product prototypes will be ready by the end of Q4/2023. Also at OFC on 6 March (17:30–17:45 PT)  in M4C.5, room 3, Scintil is presenting a paper ‘Fully Integrated  III-V-on-Silicon Multi-Port DFB Laser Comb Source for 100GHz DWDM’. In other developments, Scintil is  expanding its Grenoble office, with current openings for a chief financial officer  with administrative functions, a senior product development engineer, and  a semiconductor packaging engineer. 