OpenLight announces availability of first PDK sampler to accelerate component testing To enhance familiarity with process  technologies and increase the accessibility of photonic integrated circuits (PICs), OpenLight  of Santa Barbara, CA, USA (which launched  as an independent company in June 2022, introducing the world’s first open  silicon photonics platform with heterogeneously  integrated III-V lasers) has announced  general availability of its process design  kit (PDK) Sampler. After announcing general availability of  its PDK last November, the PDK Sampler is a unique, die-level PIC that  contains OpenLight’s standard PDK components, enabling customers to  comprehensively test PDK elements in their own lab and validate models to  enable first-pass success in a PH18DA tapeout. Components include OpenLight’s  heterogeneous laser, optical amplifier, 100G PAM4 EAM modulator, and  other active and passive components on Tower’s PH18DA process. The adoption of new process technologies  often involves a steep learning curve and is a frequent challenge for  customers, especially with recent advancements in the silicon photonics arena, notes OpenLight.  This new industry offering is said to provide a short-cut for customers to test  individual PDK elements immediately by getting direct lab data prior to taping out a custom PIC design. By being able  to test PDK components in their own labs, customers can gain increased  confidence in the Tower PH18DA process and can optically and electrically probe  PICs. “With this ‘one-of-everything’ PIC made  available through Tower Semiconductor, customers have a better vantage point to  sample every PDK component available through our open platform,” says  OpenLight’s CEO Dr Adam Carter. “OpenLight’s mission is to be the first to  enable the industry with the right design tools and accelerate the use of  PICs at scale in a wide variety of markets and applications,” he adds. “OpenLight continues to complement Tower’s  existing open foundry offering,” says Dr Marco Racanelli, senior VP  & general manager of Tower Semiconductor’s Analog business unit.  “As OpenLight’s partner, this move will make Tower’s PH18DA process more  accessible for mutual customers and help them make the most of our technology.” 