Ayar demos first 4Tbps optical solution, paving way for next-gen AI and data-center designs Silicon  photonics-based chip-to-chip optical connectivity  firm Ayar Labs of Santa Clara, CA, USA has announced public  demonstration of what it says is the industry’s first 4 terabit-per-second (Tbps) bidirectional wavelength division multiplexing (WDM) optical  solution at the Optical Fiber  Communication Conference (OFC 2023) in  San Diego (5–9 March). The firm adds that it is  currently working with high-volume manufacturing and supply partners including  GlobalFoundries, Lumentum, Macom, Sivers Photonics and others to deliver the  optical interconnects needed for data-intensive applications. Also at OFC, partner Quantifi Photonics  is launching a CW-WDM-compliant test platform that integrates Ayar’s SuperNova  light source. Ayar  says that in-package optical I/O uniquely changes the power and performance trajectories of system  design by enabling compute, memory and network silicon to communicate with a  fraction of the power and dramatically improved performance, latency and reach  versus existing electrical I/O solutions. Delivered in a compact, co-packaged CMOS  chiplet, optical I/O becomes  foundational to next-generation artificial intelligence  (AI), disaggregated data centers,  dense 6G telecoms systems, phased-array sensory systems and more. “In-package optical I/O solutions have the  potential to transform how semiconductor, AI, HPC and aerospace customers  process their next-generation, data-intensive workloads,” comments Craig  Thompson, VP of business development  for Networking at NVIDIA. “NVIDIA’s accelerated computing platform is enabled  by advanced technologies such as WDM optical interconnects to equip tomorrow’s  innovators with the extreme performance they need.” At OFC, Ayar is  giving a first public demonstration showing its optical I/O solution moving data from one TeraPHY optical I/O chiplet to another at 2.048Tbps each  direction powered by its SuperNova light source.  SuperNova powers eight fiber links  (using 64 highly accurate wavelengths operating at 32Gbps, for eight  wavelengths and 256Gbps per individual fiber) running error free at lower than 10ns of latency and  without needing forward error  correction (FEC). This allows for a total bandwidth of 2.048Tbps each  direction, or 4.096Tbps bidirectional. More importantly, the data transfer is  using less than 5pJ/bit (10W), a high level of energy efficiency, providing the power density and performance per watt  needed to achieve AI models with trillions of parameters, advanced HPC designs  and more. “Ayar Labs  continues to showcase our technology leadership with this live silicon  demonstration, an industry-first milestone on the path to overcoming the  impending power and performance wall of electrical design, and unleashing the  power of next generation compute,” says CEO Charlie Wuischpard. “As we bring  together all the supply, manufacturing, test and compute pieces needed for  high-volume deployment, we also show today that we continue to lead in pure  technical achievement,” he adds. According to the report  ‘Co-packaged Optics for Datacenter’, revenue generated by optical I/O for high-performance computing (HPC) is increasing at a compound  annual growth rate (CAGR) of 74% from about $5m in 2022 to $2.3bn in 2033, says  Martin Vallo, senior analyst,  Photonics, at Yole Intelligence (part  of Yole Group). “Projections of  rapidly growing training dataset sizes underline that data will become the main  bottleneck for scaling machine learning  (ML) models, resulting in a potential slowdown in artificial intelligence (AI) progress,” he adds.  “Using optical I/O in ML hardware  can help overcome this bottleneck, and could be the  main driver for the adoption of optical interconnects for next-gen HPC  systems.” 