Quantifi Photonics launches first CW-WDM MSA-compliant laser test source Quantifi Photonics Ltd of Auckland, New Zealand (which  provides high-density test equipment for silicon photonics, co-packaged optics  and pluggable optics) has launched the Laser 1300 Series of compact,  scalable CW-WDM MSA-compliant laser test sources, designed to enable the  CW-WDM ecosystem and accelerate the adoption of multi-wavelength technology  across emerging applications such as artificial intelligence (AI),  high-performance computing (HPC) and high-density optics. The new Laser 1300 Series integrates the SuperNova laser  technology of silicon photonics-based chip-to-chip  optical connectivity firm Ayar Labs of Santa Clara, CA, USA and  provides a multi-port, multi-wavelength light source within a standardized  PXIe module, offering synchronized triggering, a small footprint, simple  integration, and Quantifi Photonics’ CohesionUI software interface. The first  model to be announced, the Laser-1301, features eight channels, with eight  CW-WDM MSA-compatible wavelengths. The Laser-1301 can be paired with the firm’s existing PXIe-based  products to build out a complete CW-WDM8 test solution. This includes the  Laser-1226 and Laser-1227 (modules with individually controllable wavelengths  at the MSA grid), Passive-1024 (CW-WDM8 multiplexer), Passive-1025 (CW-WDM8  demultiplexer), and the OSA-1001 (an optical spectrum analyzer that covers the  CW-WDM range). Designed to meet specifications of the Continuous-Wave Wavelength Division  Multiplexing Multi-Source Agreement (CW-WDM MSA), the Laser 1300 Series  allows the characterization of photonic integrated circuits (PICs) for AI,  HPC and high-density optics applications while also providing a scalable,  reproducible light source for mass-production testing. The Laser 1300  Series complies with the CW-WDM MSA specifications that standardizes  multi-wavelength optical sources. “It’s well known that the external light source is a critical  component of the co-packaged optics ecosystem,” notes Kees Propstra, VP  marketing & general manager Quantifi Photonics USA. “By combining the  SuperNova CW-WDM-compliant light source with our proven PXIe-based optical test  platform, we can offer a CW-WDM-capable test platform to serve the growing  demand in the market and enable the testing and validation of PIC-based optical  interconnects and accelerate adoption across the industry.” Ayar Labs’ SuperNova light source, introduced in 2021 and  developed along with its TeraPHY optical I/O chiplet, provides  chip-to-chip connectivity at a fraction of the power of traditional electrical  connections while dramatically improving performance, latency and reach. “Optical I/O promises to solve the performance-per-watt challenges  of next-generation AI and HPC applications, breaking copper’s impending power  and performance wall,” says Matt Sysak, VP of laser engineering at Ayar. “Test  and measurement is an important consideration as the industry ecosystem  accelerates development of these next-generation systems, and we’re eager to  work with Quantifi Photonics to demonstrate the robustness of our solutions,”  he adds. “This is a great example of what the CW-WDM MSA wanted to  accomplish by publishing the first specification; the development of commercial  laser sources for high-wavelength-count applications,” says CW-WDM MSA  chair Chris Cole. “We are now ready to start considering our next step, which  is the development and publication of link specifications.” Quantifi Photonics is displaying the Laser 1300 Series in  booth 4511 at the Optical Fiber Communication Conference and Exhibition (OFC 2023) in San Diego,  CA, USA (7–9 March) and is  also demonstrating a range of PXIe-based lasers, OSAs (optical subassemblies), power meters, polarization  controllers and BERTs (bit-error-rate testers)  designed to enable efficient, high-volume testing of silicon photonics,  co-packaged optics and next-generation pluggable optics. 