BluGlass appoints president Jim Haden as CEO BluGlass Ltd of Silverwater, Australia –  which manufactures gallium nitride (GaN) blue laser diodes based on  its proprietary low-temperature, low-hydrogen  remote-plasma chemical vapor deposition (RPCVD) technology – has  appointed Jim Haden as CEO. Since joining the firm as president in September 2021, Haden has  brought BluGlass’ GaN laser technology to market, significantly improving laser  performance and reliability to successfully launch its first suite of products  and secure initial customer orders. Haden was instrumental in the acquisition of a purpose-built laser  production fab, which is enabling BluGlass to vertically integrate its  downstream manufacturing processes, expedite development and production, and  improve laser quality while reducing manufacturing costs. BluGlass notes that Haden is an industry veteran with more than  three decades of laser expertise and a track record of transitioning advanced  technology businesses from R&D and early-stage product development to  profitable, high-growth commercial entities. He has held senior leadership  positions at several of BluGlass’ potential customers and competitors,  including senior technical & operations adviser at Kyocera SLD, chief operating officer at nLight, director of operations  & product line management at  Coherent Inc, director of operations  at Spectra Diode Lasers (acquired by  JDS Uniphase for US$41bn), and  director of operations at JDS Uniphase  (now Lumentum). In his most recent role at Soraa Laser Diode (now Kyocera-SLD), Haden was responsible for guiding  operations and development teams to stabilize, improve and ramp high-power blue  GaN lasers. This product development delivered a leading automotive customer  and rapid revenue growth, assisting in their acquisition by Kyocera in January  2021. “Jim’s technical expertise, industry network, and commercialization  know-how has been instrumental in transforming BluGlass from our R&D  origins to a commercial provider of GaN lasers,” comments chair James Walker.  “We are now a genuine player in a fast-growing market with very few competitors  and high barriers to entry. Our unique value proposition caters to our  customers’ biggest challenges, and feedback on our newly launched products has  reaffirmed we have the right team and strategy in place to become a market  leader,” he reckons.” As CEO, Jim will have greater operational control across  our three production facilities in Sydney, Silicon Valley  and Nashua, and will be responsible for the continued transition to revenue  generation and sustainability,” he adds. 