Adoption of 800V in mass-market EVs to boost transition of power electronics to SiC The demand for electric vehicle (EV) power electronics will  increase dramatically in the next ten years, primarily driven by rapid  growth in the battery electric vehicle (BEV) car market, where market  analyst firm IDTechEx predicts a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 15%  globally over the next decade. Currently, the weighted-average  battery capacity of BEV cars is increasing in all regions, piling pressure  on battery supply chains, and creating uncertainty. The result is that  drive cycle efficiency must come to the forefront of powertrain design,  meaning the time has come for high-voltage wide-bandgap (WBG) power  electronics. The new IDTechEx report ‘Power Electronics for  Electric Vehicles 2023–2033’ provides insight  into the evolving semiconductor and package materials, including silicon,  silicon carbide (SiC) and gallium nitride (GaN) semiconductors,  die-attach materials, wire bonding and thermal management, as well as  forecasts detailing unit sales, GW and US$ demand for inverters,  onboard chargers (OBC) and DC-DC converters segmented by voltage  (600V, 1200V) and semiconductor type (Si, SiC, GaN). While silicon insulated-gate bipolar transistors (IGBTs) have dominated  the medium-to-high power device range for 20 years, including in EV  power electronics, they are giving way to a new generation of WBG  materials: SiC and GaN. This will fundamentally impact the design of new  power devices, including the package materials, as high-voltage and  high-power-density modules operating at higher temperatures becomes the trend. The two drivers often cited to move from 350–400V to 800V and beyond are higher power levels of DC  fast charging (DCFC), for example 350kW, and drive cycle efficiency  gains. DCFC compatibility today is a relatively weak driver due to low  availability versus AC chargers and the high costs associated with 800V infrastructure.  Indeed, IDTechEx’s report ‘Charging Infrastructure for Electric Vehicles  and Fleets 2022–2032’ estimates that  about 3 million AC charging installations took place in 2022, compared  with ~50,000 DCFCs over 100kW. In addition, higher levels of DCFC do not  necessarily drive a transition to 800V, although it is more optimal. Tesla is a  good example, having deployed 250kW superchargers without moving beyond its  350V platform. The efficiency argument for 800V is the stronger one. This allows joule  losses to be reduced and high-voltage cabling to be downsized. Combined with  SiC MOSFETs, it typically leads to 5-10% efficiency gains, which can  potentially downsize the expensive battery, save costs, or improve the  vehicle’s range, creating a competitive advantage. Yet, it is a challenging time for the automotive industry and 800V  adoption experienced some pitfalls in 2022. The Lucid Air, the first 900V  production car, sold about 7000 units in 2022 after an initial goal of  20,000. Porsche’s Taycan was also one of the OEM’s best-selling models in  Europe in 2020–2021, but sales declined in 2022. Both are the results of  continued parts shortages and supply chain challenges,  for example wire harness shortages due to the Russia–Ukraine war. On the other hand, Hyundai is demonstrating the success of 800V  platforms. Sales of its models using the 800V E-GMP (Electric –  Global Module Platform) more than doubled in South Korea to about  70,000 units/year, driven by the popularity of the IONIQ 5 and Kia  EV6 models. This takes the 800V car market out of the luxury segment and  predominantly into mainstream car segments for the first time. To support the  rapid growth, Hyundai is diversifying its SiC supply partnerships, signing new  deals with Onsemi and STMicroelectronics in 2022 to add to existing  relationships with Infineon and Vitesco.  China is also signaling a transition to 800V vehicles, with development  plans from major OEMs in 2022, including BYD, XPeng,  Great Wall Motors, GAC, and others. These vehicles will most likely  use SiC MOSFETs, allowing the SiC industry to tap into the world’s largest EV  market, as China sold over 6.5 million EVs in 2022. While 1200V SiC MOSFETs (adopted in 800V vehicle platforms) will play a  key role in optimizing drive cycle efficiency, it is still only one piece  of the puzzle. Drive cycle efficiency can be improved in many areas, from  improved battery chemistry to solar bodywork, high-voltage cable reduction per  vehicle, 600V SiC, improved motor design, and so on. The task for  automakers is to work towards constantly improving the overall drive cycle  efficiency to ensure that battery supply does not go wanting. 