Lumentum appoints sustainability and innovation expert as independent board member Lumentum  Holdings Inc of San Jose, CA, USA (which designs and makes optical  and photonic products for optical networks and lasers for industrial and  consumer markets) has  appointed Pamela Fletcher as an independent member of its board of directors,  expanding the membership to nine members, eight of whom are independent. “She brings a  wealth of knowledge and expertise in key sectors of interest to us, as well a  fresh perspective on critical growth levers such as sustainability and  innovation,” comments president & CEO Alan Lowe. “She will provide valuable  insights as we execute against our long-term growth strategies and expand our  global footprint,” he adds. “Lumentum has a  dynamic portfolio of innovative photonic solutions that underpin the explosive  growth we are seeing in applications for cloud computing, advanced  manufacturing, and 3D sensing,” says  Fletcher. “I look forward to working together with the senior leadership team  to capitalize on these trends and continue to increase shareholder value.” Lumentum  says that Fletcher is an  executive with over three decades of experience across the automotive and  transportation industries, with a proven track record of leading innovation,  creating new, high-growth businesses, driving market expansion, and growing new  revenue streams. Fletcher is  currently senior VP, chief  sustainability officer &  corporate innovation at Delta Air Lines Inc,  where she leads Delta’s Sustainability and Innovation organizations in service  of the company’s net-zero future. Prior to Delta Air Lines, she had a 15-year career at General Motors, where she held senior leadership  positions such as VP of Global Innovation and VP of Electric Vehicles, among other roles. Fletcher is an  innovator in the transportation sector, having been named in Motor Trend’s 2018 and 2019 ‘Power List’; on Automotive News’s 2020 list of ‘100 Leading Women in the North American Auto Industry’; and on Crain’s  2021 list of ‘100 Most Influential Women’. In addition to her  role at Delta, she serves on the Board of Advisors for the College of  Engineering at the University of North Carolina  Charlotte. Fletcher holds a  Bachelor of Engineering degree from Kettering University and a Master of  Engineering degree from Wayne State University. She has also completed  Executive Education programs at Northwestern University’s Kellogg School of  Management, Harvard Business School, and the Stanford University Graduate School of Business. 