Bridgelux responds to Nichia’s Japan patent lawsuit against CoreStaff targeting F90 LEDs On 13 February, Japan-based  Nichia Corp filed a patent infringement lawsuit  in the Tokyo District Court seeking damages and to enjoin trading  company CoreStaff Co Ltd from selling products from the F90  family of LEDs made by Bridgelux Inc  of Fremont, CA, USA (a vertically  integrated developer and manufacturer of solid-state light sources for lighting  applications), which it alleges infringe Japanese patent no.  4974310. Nichia notes that the  Japanese patent — as well as related patents  owned it in the USA, Germany and China — relates to LEDs incorporating KSF (PFS) phosphors. Nichia owns more than  120 patents in over 12 countries covering aspects of this technology, which is  important to the LCD backlight and automotive markets, says the firm. However, the scope of the  lawsuit is limited only to such products in Japan and does not cover any jurisdictions  outside of Japan. Bridgelux also notes that its F90 products are under Current  Lighting Solution and GE Lighting  (Savant Company) PSF patent licenses. Bridgelux believes that  Nichia’s infringement claims are entirely without merit. The firm notes that, for  many years, it has invested significantly in R&D, producing significant  intellectual property rights, which currently includes a patent portfolio  of more than 550 worldwide patents spanning LED technologies from chips to  luminaires. Bridgelux says that it  respects the intellectual property rights of others and expects others to  respect its intellectual property rights. The firm adds that it “will not  be intimidated by the misuse of litigation from those seeking an unfair  advantage or seeking to limit the advantage Bridgelux has earned from our  technology investments”. Because Bridgelux’s patent  portfolio covers core LED technologies including some key KSF application patents,  the firm says that it intends to employ its own patent portfolio to protect its  rights. 