POET to design optical engines for Beijing FeiYunYi’s 100G optical transceiver modules POET Technologies Inc of Toronto, Ontario, Canada  — a designer and developer of the POET Optical Interposer and photonic  integrated circuits (PICs) for the data-center, telecom and  artificial intelligence (AI) markets — has announced an agreement with Beijing FeiYunYi Technology Ltd (BFYY) to design optical engines for deployment in optical modules  in the telecom market globally, beginning in China. The agreement, valued at up  to $1m over a two-year period, includes non-recurring  engineering (NRE) for  POET and an initial purchase order  for 10,000 units that will be used  to sample customers. BFYY was formed recently for the purpose of selling modules using  POET-designed optical engines  sourced from POET’s joint venture  company Super Photonics Xiamen  (SPX). With deep connections to the telecom industry in China, BFYY is  investing in assembly facilities to build, market and sell modules for the  data-center market, specifically focused on large telecom service providers. POET has agreed to design a single-chip optical engine solution that incorporates  complete transmit and receive functionalities for implementation in a 100G  optical transceiver for BFYY’s  initial product offering. The unique  single-chip solution POET ONE aims  to offer significant performance advantages along with minimizing the  transceiver design cycle time for  BFYY. In addition to the cost benefits of POET’s wafer-scale assembly, the  single-chip solution will enable BFYY to cost effectively ramp to high-volume  production. BFYY has forecasted optical engine  purchases from SPX at more than US$30m over a three-year period. “The number of 5G and fiber-to-the-home (FTTH) subscribers in  China is growing considerably. To keep up with the bandwidth demand, several  major service providers are exploring ways to transform their networks,” notes BFYY’s  CEO Wei Zhang (Wesley Zhang). “Top-tier service providers in  China believe that transceivers with POET’s Optical Interposer technology can provide a cost-effective and  scalable solution to achieve their network automation goals. BFYY plans to  utilize its transceiver design and manufacturing capabilities along with the  benefits of POET’s integration platform to quickly ramp to high-volume  production,” he adds. “We are excited to work with BFYY on this initial product and plan  to leverage their capabilities and business relationships with service  providers to be part of the network transformation journey in China,” says  Vivek Rajgarhia, president & general manager  of POET and vice-chairman of SPX. “We will continue to offer differentiated  solutions to our customers for high-speed optical communications in data and  tele-communications markets.” 