TRUMPF showcasing updated 25G and 56G VCSEL technology and portfolio at OFC In booth 2616 at the Optical Fiber Communication  Conference and Exhibition (OFC 2023) in San Diego, CA, USA (7–9 March),  TRUMPF Photonic Components GmbH of Ulm, Germany (part of the TRUMPF Group) –  which makes vertical-cavity surface-emitting lasers (VCSELs) and photodiodes  for the consumer electronics, datacoms,  industrial sensing, heating and  automotive markets – is showcasing its recently updated VCSEL  product portfolio and technology with matching photodiodes. The firm is introducing the updated  product portfolio of its  well-established 25G and 56G components with extended temperature range and higher performances. In addition, TRUMPF is showcasing a  live demonstration on the performance of its latest VCSEL and photodiode  components. “At OFC 2023 we are also presenting progress on our 100G as well  as our long-wavelength programs to address future demands,” says Ralph Gudde,  VP marketing & sales. Advanced optical data communication  systems benefit from the high-speed data transmission that VCSEL-based  technology offers, notes TRUMPF. For interconnect distances below 100m, VCSELs  are the best solution in terms of power and cost, the firm adds. TRUMPF is offering both VCSELs and  photodiodes as matching pair  solution, in singlets, 1x4 arrays and 1x12 arrays for 14G and 25G for NRZ  applications. The same is offered for 56G PAM4 applications. The VCSELs are specifically  designed to meet the demands of data centers,  high-performance computing systems, and other bandwidth-intensive applications,  as they deliver stable and reliable data transmission  at high speeds. TRUMPF says that it is investing in  several technologies to extend the power, cost and reliability benefits of  VCSELs for future applications. The developments include an extension to  long-wavelength VCSELs as well as single-mode VCSELs with polarization  gratings. The long wavelengths span 980–1310nm and even higher wavelengths,  addressing longer-range datacom and automotive applications. Increased  bandwidth, lower power consumption,  additional multiplexing options and superior noise control are among the expected benefits from the  developments of single-mode VCSELs and polarization gratings. The solutions  continue to offer transmission at higher data rates and higher temperature, resulting in improved  overall system performance,  says TRUMPF. 