AXT’s revenue falls 24% in Q4, as InP hit by cooling data-center market and softness in 5G telecoms in China AXT Inc of Fremont, CA, USA – which makes gallium arsenide (GaAs), indium phosphide (InP) and germanium (Ge) substrates and raw  materials – says that its full-year revenue rose by 2.7% from  $137.4m in 2021 to $141.1m for 2022. However, revenue for fourth-quarter 2022 was $26.8m, down 23.9% on $35.2m last quarter  and 28.9% on $37.7m a year ago, and towards the low end of the $26–29m guidance range. “The softening of the  macro-environment continued as expected,” notes CEO Dr Morris Young. “We saw a step back in revenue across our portfolio  as customers continue to digest inventory in the channel and evaluate their  needs for the coming quarters.” Indium phosphide revenue  was $14m, up 6.9% on $13.1m a year ago but down 26% on last quarter’s record $17.7m due mainly to  continued cooling in the data-center market as well as ongoing softness in 5G  telecom infrastructure, particularly in China. “The PON [passive optical networks] market was coming  down off its peak, but has been fairly resilient,” says Young. Gallium arsenide revenue  has fallen further, more than halving from $11.3m a year ago and down by a  third on $8.1m last quarter to $5.5m. “Our gallium arsenide revenue is  down significantly off its mid-2022 highs, with customers in China having  slowed significantly,” notes Young. “We’re seeing a strong impact on  applications using wireless devices for IoT and headset markets, as well as  industrial lasers, LED lighting and display.” Although it is still  down on $4.2m a year ago, Germanium substrate revenue rebounded slightly from  $1.1m last quarter to $1.3m, after resolving a payment issue with certain germanium  customers. Total  substrate sales were therefore $20.8m, down 22.7% on $26.9m last  quarter and 27.3% on $28.6m a year ago. In addition, revenue was  $6m from AXT’s two consolidated raw materials joint venture companies: BoYu  (which makes high-temperature pyrolytic boron nitride crucibles and  pBN-based tools for organic light-emitting diodes) and JinMei (which  supplies high-purity materials including gallium and germanium, as well as InP  poly and other materials). This was down from $8.3m last quarter and $9.1m a year ago, due  to pricing pressure and the softer demand environment. Of  total revenue in Q4, the proportion from the Asia-Pacific region was 70% (down on  74.9% a year ago), Europe was 15% (down from 16.7%) and North America was 15% (up from  8.4%). The top five customers again generated about 41% of total revenue,  including one customer over 10%. On a non-GAAP basis,  gross margin was 32.5%, roughly level with 32.4% a year ago but down more than  expected from 42.2% last quarter. This was due mainly to the significantly  lower revenue but also a less favorable product mix than expected as  well as a significant drop in the price of raw gallium, which resulted in low  margin contribution from JinMei. Nevertheless, full-year gross margin still rose  from 34.8% in 2021 to 37.2% for 2022. Full-year operating  expenses rose from $30.4m in 2021 to $35.9m for 2022. However, despite still  being up on $8.1m a year ago, quarterly OpEx was cut slightly from $9.2m last  quarter to $9m. Net income was $2.1m  ($0.05 per share) in Q4/2022, down from $6.8m ($0.16 per share) last quarter  and $4.1m ($0.09 per share) a year ago, but at the top end of the $0.03–0.05 per share  guidance range. Full-year net income still grew from $19.1m ($0.44 per share)  in 2021 to $19.8m ($0.46 per share) for 2022. During Q4/2022, cash,  cash equivalents and investments rose from $48.2m to $52.8m. “2022 was a  productive year in which we grew both our revenue and our profitability, and  invested in innovations,” says Young. “As we head into Q1,  we’re seeing a business slowdown continue as customers across our portfolio are  evaluating and reducing inventory,” says Young. “We continue to perform well in  our [InP-related] consumer applications but, because of inventory digestions,  we expect it to take a meaningful pause in the first half of 2023 [after only  starting to see softness in InP for consumer products in mid-Q1].” The effect in first-quarter  2023 is exacerbated by the typical business interruption of Chinese New Year as well as the  lingering effect of COVID shutdowns in China. AXT hence expects revenue to fall  to $19–21m in Q1/2023. “This lower revenue  is expected to have a significant impact on our manufacturing overhead being  spread over fewer units, which will have a negative impact on gross margin,” notes  chief financial officer Gary Fischer. “Product mix is  also less favorable as a result of lower expected revenue for indium phosphide.” AXT  therefore expects gross margin to fall to about 21%, yielding a net loss of $0.10–0.12 per share. “In addition to  clamping down on inventory, we’re going to put the brakes on CapEx as well, say  $3–5m,” says Fisher. “We’re  not buying material. We’re shutting down most of our construction,” adds Young.  “Last year, we were going to increase our [InP] capacity by 50%. We are not  building that capacity anymore.” “We are planning for  a major reset in Q1, but we do expect that we could see improvement beginning  in Q2 as China re-opens more fully,” says Young. “After such a strong decline,  the gallium arsenide market appears to be stabilizing and we could see incremental  improvement beginning in Q2.” “While the germanium  substrate market has also been affected by the macro softness, we will be  working towards sequential growth in the coming quarters,” he adds. “With consumer coming  back in China, I think the market will start to bounce back in Q3 and Q4 of  this year,” says Young. “As business returns, I think we should be looking forward  to mid-30%s and even high-30%s [gross margin],” he adds.  “When things rebound, all the stuff that we’ve done for the last two years to improve  gross margin is going to blossom again. It’s just taking a pause because of  the disruption in the marketplace right now,” adds Fisher. “Though a softening  of the macro-environment has reset our growth trajectory, the trends that have  driven our revenue, customer and application expansion remain very much intact,”  believes Young. “We are continuing to see active development for new  applications and technology investments using our materials. While the  near-term environment is working through a significant inventory correction,  the mid-term and longer-term prospect for our markets are vibrant. In addition  to the core applications that are driving our revenue today, new uses in  automotive sensing, consumer products, health sensing, displays and more  [communications infrastructure, data center] are taking  shape in a very real way.” “We are looking at  all possible ways to tighten our budget, but R&D is an area we’re not  cutting back yet,” Young notes. “We have made significant progress this year in  the development of next-generation large-diameter substrates for gallium arsenide and indium phosphide,” he adds. “We are making good  progress in our 8-inch gallium arsenide wafer development [currently shipping  hundreds of wafer to customers]. This product will be a cornerstone for  micro-LED adoption in a variety of consumer devices. While a meaningful revenue  ramp isn’t expected to begin until sometime next year [albeit now late 2024  rather than early 2024], product qualification at the substrate level are  scheduled to begin this year. AXT is well positioned to be a prime player in  this market,” Young reckons. “We view micro-LED as a breakthrough display  technology for consumers, as it is expected to deliver significant improvement  in power efficiency as well as greater brightness and more brilliant colors.  Tier-1 companies are advancing its development [for a commercial ramp up in  volume production probably late 2024 to 2025], and we believe it has the potential  to reshape the gallium arsenide substrate industry.” In late  December 2021, AXT’s China-based wafer manufacturing subsidiary Beijing Tongmei  Xtal Technology Co Ltd submitted its application to list its shares  in an initial public offering on the Shanghai Stock Exchange’s Sci-Tech  innovAtion boaRd (STAR Market). The application was formally accepted for  consideration on 10 January 2022. Subsequently, Tongmei  responded to several rounds of questions received from the Shanghai  Stock Exchange (SSE). On 12 July 2022, the SSE approved the listing of Tongmei’s shares. On 1 August 2022, the  China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) accepted Tongmei’s IPO  application for review. The STAR Market IPO remains  subject to review and approval by the CSRC and other authorities. AXT notes that the  process of going public on the STAR Market includes several periods of review  and, therefore, is a lengthy process. Nevertheless, Tongmei hopes to accomplish  this goal in the coming months. 