Lumentum’s quarterly revenue up 13.3% year-on-year to $506m For its fiscal  second-quarter 2023 (ended 31 December 2022), Lumentum Holdings Inc of San Jose, CA, USA (which designs and  makes optical and photonic products for optical networks and lasers for  industrial and consumer markets) has reported revenue of $506m, roughly level with  $506.8m last quarter but above the midpoint of the guidance range, and up 13.3% on $446.7m  a year ago. Specifically,  sequentially higher revenue from Telecom and Commercial Lasers customers offset  the reduction from certain cloud customers due to inventory digestion and from  a major consumer customer due to reduced smartphone unit production. The Commercial Lasers segment contributed a record $57.2m  (11.3% of total revenue), up 7.1% on $53.4m last quarter and up 16% on $49.3m a year ago, aided by gaining market share. The Optical Communications  segment contributed $448.8m (88.7 % of total revenue),  up 12.9% on $397.4m a year ago, but down 1% on $453.4m  last quarter. The drop was driven primarily by a decline in  Industrial & Consumer – specifically, consumer vertical-cavity surface-emitting  lasers (VCSELs) for 3D sensing, due  to expected market share normalization relative to Lumentum’s main competitor (although this has the advantage of reducing  Lumentum’s exposure to such a cyclical market). This was mostly offset by 44%  year-on-year growth in Telecom & Datacom. “In addition, due to the escalated data  traffic at the edge of the network, customers are deploying our products  originally developed for core network applications at the edge or access part  of the network. Revenue from edge networking products was up 40% year-on-year  in the second quarter, and is now a major component of our Telecom business,”  notes president & CEO Alan Lowe. Growth from Telecom customers was  partially offset by the inventory digestion at certain cloud customers.  “Revenue growth continues to be limited by supply shortages of ICs from third  parties. We have made significant progress over the last year on closing  supply gaps, which has enabled our growth to date. At the end of the  second quarter, remaining IC supply shortages resulted in approximately $60m of  unsatisfied customer demand. This is a modest improvement from the $80m gap  articulated in our last call,” says Lowe. Revenue was especially strong in products  which play into the industry’s transition to 400G-and-above speeds in  next-generation networks, including narrow-linewidth tunable lasers, tunable  transceivers for network edge applications, high-speed coherent components  and modules, as well as Lumentum’s latest ROADMs. 
  “We achieved a new quarterly revenue  record in narrow-linewidth tunable lasers, which are key enablers of all  coherent transmission solutions, including 400G ZR and ZR+ modules, and our  customers’ latest 600G and 800G transmission systems,” notes Lowe. “We also set a quarterly revenue record  with our tunable transceivers for network edge applications where a growing set  of cable, MSO, and wireless network operator customers use our modules to  expand data bandwidth in metro access, fiber deep, and wireless 5G  front-haul applications,” he adds. Coherent components serving 400G-and-above  applications also achieved record revenue, with about half of that revenue  coming from the highest-data-rate applications at 600G and 800G. Due to continued strong demand and  improved access to critical ICs, revenue from ROADMs grew 45% year-on-year,  including 78% growth for MxN ROADMs and over 70% for high-port-count ROADMs,  representing “broader adoption of these next-generation ROADMs with  market-leading customers”. As anticipated, inventory digestion at  certain cloud customers and their module manufacturers resulted in a sequential  decline in Datacom’s laser chip revenue. “Nearly  90% of total revenue is now derived from [telecom] infrastructure markets,  which are driven by durable, long-term secular trends in which we serve with  highly differentiated products and technologies,” says Lowe. “Our  technology leadership position is stronger than ever due to successful  investments in developing new products and technologies, as well as the two acquisitions  we closed this past August [NeoPhotonics Corp, and the IPG Photonics’  telecom transmission product lines],” he adds. On a non-GAAP basis, gross margin has fallen further, from  51% a year ago and 48.2% last quarter to 44.9%,  driven primarily by product mix, including lower-margin revenue  from the acquisition of NeoPhotonics. Gross  margin for the Optical Communication segment was hence 43.9%, down on 50.8% a year  ago. Gross margin for the Commercial Lasers segment of 52.4% was roughly flat  sequentially but down from 53.1% a year ago. Operating expenses have risen further, from  $86.4m (19.3% of revenue) a year ago and $106.7m (21.1%  of revenue) last quarter to $110.3m (21.8%  of revenue), due to R&D expense rising from $47.8m a year ago and $60.8m last  quarter to $64.4m. Selling, general & administrative (SG&A) expense was $45.9m, up from $38.6m a  year ago but level with last quarter. OpEx was $5-7m better than expected,  since synergy targets for the first year post-acquisitions have been  pulled into the first six months, offsetting some of the impact of NeoPhotonics  on margins. “We are now six months into integrating  these acquisitions and tracking ahead of plan in realizing overall cost  synergies, which contributed to our profitability and earnings per share  results being above our guidance ranges,” says Lowe. Operating income  has fallen further, from $141.6m (operating margin of 31.7%) a year ago and $137.4m (27.1% margin) last  quarter to $116.7m (23.1% margin), due to product mix including from the recent acquisitions, but above the guidance of  20–22%. Likewise,  net income has fallen further, from $120.2m ($1.60 per diluted share) a year ago and $119.2m ($1.69 per diluted share) last quarter to $104.1m ($1.52 per diluted share, but above the guidance  range of $1.20–1.45, driven  partly by the accelerated attainment of acquisition synergies, a cost savings  action taken late in Q2, and higher interest income on cash and investments). During the quarter,  Lumentum recorded one-time restructuring and related charges of $13.9m (due mainly to company-wide integration efforts as it  accelerated the attainment of acquisition synergies after the merger with  NeoPhotonics, as well as some cost-reduction initiatives, and severance and  employee-related benefits related to NeoPhotonics) plus a charge of $7.8m  related to the settlement of non-ordinary course litigation matters. Lumentum also  incurred $11.7m in extraordinary charges to acquire IC components from  brokers to satisfy customer demand. Overall, during  the quarter, total cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments rose by  $55.5m, from $1624.9m to $1680.4m. “These results  reflect structural improvement in the long-term operating costs of the company,  as we continue to execute on our synergy plan,” says Lowe. When Lumentum acquired NeoPhotonics, it  highlighted $50m in synergy opportunities with $20m in annual operating expense  opportunities within the first fiscal year and then another $30m cost of sales  synergies as it exits the second fiscal year. “We have already exceeded our  $20m cost savings target in annual operating expense synergies over the  last six months of integration activity, we have executed well on our  operating expense reduction plans, and are confident we will exceed our  initial synergy targets,” says chief financial officer Wajid Ali.  “In December, we took additional actions that will structurally improve the  long-term operating costs of the company. The benefits of these actions are  reflected in our diluted net income per share guidance for Q3.” For fiscal third-quarter 2023 (to end-March), Lumentum expects revenue to fall to $430–460m. This is due to about $60m of impact primarily in Telecoms  from continued supply constraints due to shortages of third-party IC components, in addition to reduced cloud and consumer end-market revenue (with Datacom and 3D sensing lower than prior  projections), and a few million dollar sequential decline in Commercial Lasers  revenue. “We expected the hyperscale customers to  reduce their inventories of our laser chips during the second quarter.  Now, we expect that this will continue throughout most of calendar 2023,” says  Lowe. Fiscal Q3 operating  margin should fall further to 17–19%. Diluted earnings per share are  expected to fall to $1.00–1.15. Given the assumption of growth in Telecom  and Datacom business offset by seasonally lower consumer revenue, for fiscal Q4  Lumentum  expects that Q4 revenue will be roughly flat on Q3, still constrained by IC  supply. Full-year fiscal 2023  revenue will therefore be at the low end of the previously announced outlook of  $1.9–2.05bn. However, due to the substantial structural improvements in  operating expenses and tight cost controls, Lumentum now expects that full-year earnings  per share will be $5.15–5.45, above the midpoint of the prior  guidance of $4.65–5.65. 