Skyworks’ quarterly revenue falls during Android-related inventory consumption For fiscal first-quarter 2023 (to 30 December 2022), Skyworks Solutions Inc of Irvine, CA, USA (which manufactures analog and  mixed-signal semiconductors) has reported revenue of $1.329bn, down 5.5% on $1.407bn last quarter and 12% on $1.51bn a year ago, but exceeding consensus estimates. Skyworks’  largest customer comprised about 68% of total revenue, despite them being  supply constrained due to COVID-related issues in China. In contrast, South Korea’s  Samsung was less than a 10% customer. “They are going through an inventory  burn-off period right now. Proactively, we have reduced our shipments to that  customer,” notes senior VP & chief financial officer Kris Sennesael. “We  stepped back a bit on Android as the inventory levels were building in the  channel,” adds chairman, CEO & president Liam K. Griffin. Similarly, Oppo,  Vivo and Xiaomi are also “going through an inventory cycle now”, so China  comprised less than 5% of revenue. “That’s because the market didn’t need more  than that, and we didn’t want to sell more than that,” says Griffin. “We never  built the inventory up. We try to meet the demand as it is.” Mobile  products comprised 65% of total revenue (down  from 68% a year ago), with weakness in Android while customers work down their  inventory levels. Broad  Markets products comprised 35% of revenue, down year-on-year due to  macroeconomic headwinds, but with a strong contribution from automotive (a sixth consecutive quarter of record revenue),  infrastructure, industrial, and the global upgrade to Wi-Fi 6E (which presents a big step-up in content) and  some early design wins for Wi-Fi 7 that are now being turned  into revenue. “Skyworks delivered  solid first quarter results, leveraging our increasingly diverse portfolio of  mobile and IoT solutions,” says Griffin. “The rapid expansion of mobile  network traffic, advances in cloud and edge computing, IoT, and the  electrification of vehicles are major trends that drive complexity and demand  for our highly integrated and customized solutions,” he adds. “We expanded our  design-win pipeline in several emerging high-growth segments”: Despite the decline  in revenue, on a non-GAAP basis, gross margin has risen  further, from 51.2% a year ago and 51.3% last quarter to 51.5%, due to driving  operational efficiencies into the firm’s factories with “great execution”  despite adjustments made to factory loadings, aided by Skyworks doing “just  about everything” in-house. “The ability to do that also includes great supply chain  management,” says Griffin. 
  Operating  expenses were $193m (14.5% of revenue),  up from $187m (12.4% of revenue) a year ago but roughly level with $192m last  quarter. Net  income has fallen further, from $523m ($3.14 per diluted share) a year ago and $486m ($3.02 per diluted share) last quarter to $415m ($2.59 per diluted share). Nevertheless,  operating cash flow was a quarterly record of $773m (up from $236m last quarter).  Capital expenditure has fallen to $64m (from $142m last quarter, as the CapEx  rate moderates compared with the 10-12% of revenue over the last five years).  Free cash flow was hence a record $709m (a margin of 53% of revenue), up from  $486m a year ago. During  the quarter, Skyworks paid $99m in dividends and repurchased about 1.8 million  shares of common stock for a total of $166m. On a trailing 12-month basis, the firm  has returned $1.2bn to shareholders through dividends and buybacks. Overall,  during the quarter cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities rose from  $586.8m to $992.6m. Since the end of the  quarter, Skyworks’ board of directors has declared a cash dividend of  $0.62 per share of common stock, payable on 21 March, to stockholders  of record at the close of business on 28 February. “Additionally, our  board of directors has approved a new $2bn stock repurchase program,  demonstrating their confidence in our business and its ability to continue  generating strong free cash flow,” says Sennesael. For fiscal second-quarter  2023 (to end-March), Skyworks  expects revenue to fall to $1.125–1.175bn, with Broad Markets  to be slightly down sequentially, somewhat in line with normal seasonality. In Mobile, Android-related  business will remain low, especially in China, with Vivo and Xiaomi – and,  to a certain extent, Samsung as well – still going through the  inventory burn-off process. Gross  margin should fall to 50–50.5%. Despite  operating expenses being cut to $189–191m, diluted earnings  per share are expected to fall to $2.02. “Inventory  overhang is starting to abate already… We will start seeing some improvements  in the June quarter and then, for sure, in the back half of calendar year  2023,” believes Sennesael. “As we  get through this quarter and starting to see toward the second half of the year  a more improving macro-environment, we will be very well-positioned to execute.  If things change, we can move faster if we need to. But it’s not a technology  issue. It’s not an execution issue,” says Griffin. “Despite  some of those macro-economic headwinds and challenges and somewhat softer  demand and maybe a little bit of inventory correction that is going on, we do  believe that we can grow our Broad Markets business this year,” says Sennesael. “We  play in some high-growth markets with some really key technologies… We have  strong design-win momentum.” Over  the last five years, Skyworks has put a  lot of technology-related investments in place ($500-600m  of CapEx annually). “We spent that money  over the last four or five years strategically to build up a competency in bulk  acoustic wave (BAW) and other filter  technology. It’s very, very difficult stuff. It’s not available in the merchant  market. So, it was a make versus buy approach. We did the make. So, we  developed solutions that are purpose-built for Skyworks and purpose-built for  our customers,” says Griffin. “Now,  we have to leverage that capacity. We’re focusing really now on driving  operational efficiencies, die shrinks, yield improvements, which gives us a lot  more capacity leveraging the installed base of the equipment that we have… without  putting more equipment in place,” says Sennesael. “The  vast majority of that CapEx was going into expanding our BAW filter operation  where we have – of  course, from a small base – doubled and doubled and doubled again the  capacity there,” says Sennesael. “Our revenue from devices that has BAW filters in will continue  to grow very strongly. We will not hesitate to put more capacity in place if  and when needed,” he adds. “There  will be incremental CapEx spend over the next several years, but it won’t be at  the level of the last three or four, because now those investments are  in-house, at scale, and running,” says Griffin. “It really will help to further  improve our strong cash flow that we have already,” notes Sennesael. “We expect further  strong cash flow for the remainder of the year, again, based on some moderate  CapEx. But we could drive our free cash flow over 30% [of  revenue] in this fiscal year.” he adds. “Skyworks is well  positioned to navigate a challenging macro backdrop with its highly profitable  business model, leading connectivity technologies and an expanding set of  customers across many of the strongest market segments,” concludes Griffin. 