Qorvo’s quarterly revenue falls by a third due to weak end-market demand and elevated channel inventories For fiscal third-quarter 2023 (ended 31 December 2022), Qorvo Inc  of Greensboro, NC, USA (which provides core technologies and RF solutions for  mobile, infrastructure and defense applications) has reported revenue of $743.3m, down 35.8% on  $1158.1m last quarter and 33.3% on $1114m  a year ago, but $18m above the midpoint of the $700-750m guidance range. “We enjoyed  relatively strong performance in automotive, broadband, defense and silicon carbide (SiC) power devices,” says chief financial officer Grant Brown. “However, elevated channel inventories and weak  end-market demand pressured revenue and order activity across all three  operating segments [High-Performance Analog (HPA), Connectivity  & Sensors Group (CSG) and Advanced Cellular Group (ACG)].” High-Performance  Analog (HPA) revenue was $155m, down 14.8% on $182m a year ago,  as growth in defense and power devices – including robust design  activity for silicon carbide (SiC) – was offset by inventory consumption in the 5G base-station infrastructure  market and softness in consumer-facing power management integrated circuit  (PMIC) markets such as solid-state  drives (SSDs) and battery-powered tools. Connectivity &  Sensors Group (CSG) revenue was $97m, down 38.6% on $158m a year ago,  reflecting lower end-market demand plus channel inventory digestion for  Wi-Fi products, partially offset by strength in automotive. However, design  activity was strong across customers and products, including ultra-wideband,  matter and sensors. Use-cases continue to proliferate their benefit from  precision location, indoor navigation, seamless connectivity and enhanced  human-machine interfaces. Advanced Cellular  Group (ACG) revenue was $491m, down 36.6% on $775m a year ago,  reflecting macroenvironment-driven lower smartphone unit volumes across  customers and channel inventory digestion within the Android ecosystem. However, design  activity continued to be strong across customers and product categories and  supports year-over-year content gains at Qorvo’s largest customers (the  biggest comprises about two-thirds of ACG revenue). On a  non-GAAP basis, gross margin has fallen further, from 52.6% a year ago and  49.2% last quarter to 40.9% (below the 43-44% guidance), impacted by: 920 basis points  due to lower factory utilization and higher inventory-related charges (as net inventory balance  rose slightly, from $841m to $857m); 30 basis points due to a quality issue at a supplier;  and 80 basis points due to inflation across direct costs. Operating expenses have been cut more than expected, from $232.5m  last quarter to $205.7m (below the targeted $225.5-227.5m guidance range) due  to OpEx discipline, the timing of product development spend, and lower  employee-related expenses including incentive-based compensation. Net  income has fallen further, from $330.4m ($2.98  per diluted share) a year ago and $276.2m ($2.66  per diluted share) last quarter to $76.5m ($0.75  per diluted share, albeit at the top of the $0.70-0.75 guidance range).  
  Net cash provided by operating activities was $237.4m (up from $117m a year ago). Capital expenditure  amounted to $34.4m. Free cash flow was hence $203m. During the quarter,  Qorvo repurchased about $200m worth of shares. Overall, cash and equivalents therefore  rose from $914m to $919m. Qorvo has about  $2bn of debt outstanding with no near-term maturities. “The Qorvo team is operating well in navigating a challenging  environment and taking actions to position the company for growth and improved  performance,” says president & CEO Bob Bruggeworth. “We are introducing  best-in-class products and technologies, and our customers are recognizing us  with design wins, quality awards, and new and expanded programs,” he adds. Such strategic  highlights are listed as follows: “In 2023 and beyond, the secular trends in our businesses remain  strong,” says Bruggeworth. “Customers increasingly require higher levels of  performance, integration and functional density to deliver successive  improvements in next-generation products,” he adds. For its  fiscal fourth-quarter 2023 (to  end-March), Qorvo expects revenue to fall further, to $600–640m (down from $1166m  a year ago), despite expecting sales to Android smartphone customers to  grow sequentially. Revenue from China-based smartphone OEMs  will remain roughly flat. The decline reflects ongoing demand weakness across  end-markets as well as expectations for further consumption of channel  inventory. “Qorvo’s inventory  position will decline in March, but remain elevated. In terms of channel  inventory, the picture has begun to improve. For example, total channel  inventory for our components in the Android ecosystem was reduced by over 20%  in the December quarter. We expect continued improvement this quarter and  anticipate the channel to normalize later this calendar year,” says Brown. “We expect production levels to remain compressed. This will lead  to continuing under-utilization charges related to inventories, which will weigh  on gross margin during fiscal Q4 and carry into next fiscal year,” he  adds. With under-utilization and inventory-related charges having about the  same impact as in fiscal Q3, together with continued inflation across  direct costs, gross margin should hence be roughly flat at about 41% in fiscal Q4. Operating expenses  should rise about $20m sequentially due to the timing of product development spend,  seasonal payroll effects and other employee-related expenses. Diluted  earnings per share are hence expected to fall further, to $0.10–0.15. “In addition to ongoing alignment of supply and demand, we expect  unit volumes across our businesses will recover later this year, and we  have secured content gains in large customer programs, all of which will  support improved financial performance,” says Brown. “We would expect June [quarter] to be  roughly flattish. I would expect September to see significant sequential growth  and then December and the March 2024 quarters to be back to strong annual  growth from there,” says Bruggeworth. “At  our largest two customers, we are very confident in our ability to grow  year-over-year content, and that includes this year,” he adds. “Over the course  of fiscal 2024, I could see potentially that 920 basis points of  margin [impact from factory under-utilization and inventory-related charges]  get cut in half.” “We continue to make  improvements in product development, filter design, process engineering,  factory planning, manufacturing efficiency and many other areas. Today, these  gains have significantly increased our effective BAW capacity,” says Brown. “Looking forward, we can double  our BAW capacity in the Richardson facility versus our current maximum  theoretical thresholds today,” he adds. “We see an expanding market for our BAW  technology. We intend to put that to good use as we continue to capture designs  and grow our BAW content in flagship phones,” adds Bruggeworth. “Increasing  throughput of an existing asset not only reduces cost, but can reduce  complexity within the factory network as production is consolidated. The BAW  productivity gains in our Richardson facility [e.g. die-size  shrinks, the transition from 6- to 8 inch wafers, and successive generations of  BAW filters] allow us to achieve our long-term growth goals across all of our  customers, including the most demanding BAW-based placements. As a result, we have  decided to sell our Farmers Branch facility [described as a ‘safety  valve’ whose capacity is no longer needed, since the Richardson productivity  gains came to fruition]. We’re in the early stages of marketing the site  and initial interest has been encouraging. For reference, the site has been  incurring approximately $12m of non-GAAP COGS [cost of goods sold] per year,” Brown notes. “We are also  evaluating strategic alternatives for our biotechnology business to accelerate  and maximize its potential value. The Omnia platform, which is based on our BAW  sensor technology, has demonstrated significant promise as a diagnostic testing  solution,” continues Brown. “The  biotechnology unit currently resides in our CSG segment. While the revenue  impact from a transaction would be negligible, it would reduce total expenses  by about $32m per year. These actions will sharpen our focus and resources on  the many growth drivers across our three operating segments.” See related  items: Qorvo and SK Siltron CSS  sign long-term silicon carbide supply agreement Qorvo  announces $2bn share repurchase program Qorvo’s December quarter  exceeds the mid-point of guidance for revenue, gross margin and EPS 