European project PowerizeD kicked off, targeting intelligent power electronics The European  research initiative PowerizeD has been kicked-off with a meeting of over 100  representatives from 39 companies and 23 research institutions – comprising 62  research partners from 13 European countries – at the headquarters of the  project’s initiator and coordinator Infineon Technologies AG in Munich,  Germany, which is an active participant via several corporate divisions. Relying on the  digitalization of power applications, PowerizeD aims to take the sustainability  and resilience of the European energy chain, from generation to  application, to a new level and strengthen Europe’s technological sovereignty. Lasting three  years until December 2025, the European Union is funding PowerizeD with about €18m  as part of the joint program for digital key technologies (Key Digital  Technologies Joint Undertaking, KDT JU) in its Digital Agenda. The  amount will be matched by funding from the national governments of the  respective countries involved, making total funding of €72m. The subsidies from  Germany are being provided by the Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF). “We have to  make highly efficient use of energy if we are to achieve net-zero climate  protection goals. Digitalization can help here as a highly decisive lever for  more energy efficiency,” says Infineon’s chief digital transformation  officer Constanze Hufenbecher. “We are pleased to be able to combine our  strengths with the strengths of so many excellent partners from research and  business,” she adds. “Power electronics  is key to the energy transformation and is used anywhere and everywhere that  electricity is generated, transferred and used efficiently,” says Infineon’s  chief operations officer Dr Rutger Wijburg. “The broad spectrum of  power electronics applications makes it very important that we collaborate  with partners across the boundaries of corporate entities and organizations to  jointly advance Europe as innovation engine.” The project  partners are focusing on applications from the fields of energy and mobility.  17 demonstrator paths are concerned with, among other things, the improvement  of drives for the rail industry, charging systems for the automotive industry,  liquid batteries for the energy industry, and drives for manufacturing  industries. The research partners will take an interdisciplinary approach, with  topics including modeling and Digital Twin, Federated Learning, and  reliability and sustainability. The newly  developed key technologies are to be realized and demonstrated in concrete  form, and are to be evaluated in terms of a large number of universally  applicable results. The immediate project objectives include: PowerizeD aims  to increase the degree of mechanical and electrical integration of control,  driver and switching functionalities in components and to advance the  integrated optimization of all power switch functionalities, independent  of the semiconductor material used. New switching topologies and advanced  control strategies involving the application of artificial intelligence  are targeted at improving efficient, robust and reliable operations even  further. 