Wolfspeed’s quarterly revenue falls 10% due to spare parts supply chain constraints plus weak 5G RF device demand For fiscal  second-quarter 2023 (to  25 December 2022), Wolfspeed Inc  of Durham, NC, USA – which makes silicon carbide materials as well as silicon carbide (SiC) and gallium nitride (GaN)  power-switching & RF semiconductor devices – has reported revenue of  $216.1m, up 25% on $173.1m a year ago but down 10% on $241.3m last quarter and  at the low end of the $215–235m guidance  range. “We are continuing to see very, very  strong demand across both [silicon carbide]  power devices and materials. However,  the supply chain issues we discussed  last quarter caused variability in our quarterly revenue in the second quarter, with equipment spare part shortages limiting our Durham [power device] fab output, while at the same  time we continue to work through the ramp of our taller 150mm [material] boules,”  says chief financial officer Neill  Reynolds. Wolfspeed recently made a breakthrough in its ability to grow taller  boules, as it has continued to refine its crystal growth  operations. “For both of those areas [SiC materials and power devices] that’s  going to be much more of a supply situation rather than it being a demand  situation. So bringing on supply is really the critical focus there,” he adds. “We have made significant progress on both  issues and they are currently processing these improvements through our  production cycle,” Reynolds notes. “It took a little bit longer in the quarter  to get to the cycle times and  throughput. So we built a bit of inventory [which rose by 26 days to 161 days  of inventory (DOI) on hand]. So the  shipping rates at the end of the quarter were a little bit slower. “In terms of our power devices, which grew 48% versus last year,  we saw strong performance ahead of our expectations, mostly resolving the  Durham spare parts supply chain issue,” says Reynolds. However, with  the Durham fab operating at full capacity [about $400m per year], power devices revenue is now effectively capped  at about $100m per quarter. So, any significant further power device revenue growth will only come  after Wolfspeed starts ramping up production at its new Mohawk Valley Fab in Marcy, NY. “From a materials perspective, we made  very significant progress in improving yields on our taller 150mm boules. These  yields are now comparable to our historical yields on shorter boules,” says Reynolds.  “However, back-end wafer processing  cycle times recovered later in the  quarter than anticipated, resulting in lower-than-expected Q2 revenues for our  materials products. This past quarter represents the bottom of the revenue  trough related to this issue as we exited the quarter at yields, cycle times and shipping rates that will all  support future materials revenue growth,” he adds. “We also saw weaker demand for RF products  due to secular headwinds with recession-related pullback in 5G demand [with  some orders pushed out in the quarter],” says Reynolds. RF device revenue was  hence down by about 25% ($15m) from last  quarter’s peak. RF devices continue to be dilutive to  consolidated gross margin. “Because of the immense demand for our power devices, we have not been able to  optimize the RF manufacturing footprint as we had previously planned,” says  Reynolds. Due to  this, plus the lower yields on the taller 150mm boules and lower output of the  Durham fab due to the supply chain  challenges, gross margin (on a non-GAAP  basis) was 33.6%, down from 35.6% last quarter and 35.4% a year ago. “While we  made significant progress on both issues [SiC materials and power devices] in the quarter and expect to see  improvement moving forward, they both represented a drag on gross margin,” says  Reynolds. Net loss for fiscal Q2/2023 was $14.2m  ($0.11 per diluted share), cut from $18.6m ($0.16 per diluted share) a year ago  but up from $4.9m ($0.04 per diluted share) last quarter. Net  cash used in operating activities has more than doubled from $32.5m a year ago  to $67m. Total capital expenditure (CapEx) was $104.1m (down from $143.9m a  year ago). Free cash outflow was therefore $171.1m (cut slightly from $176.4m). For fiscal third-quarter 2023 (to  end-March), Wolfspeed targets revenue of $210–230m,  reflecting continued strong demand, as well as supply execution improvement in  both the power device and materials product lines, partially offset  by continued weak demand for RF devices, for which revenue will remain about  $15m lower than previously expected in both fiscal Q3 and Q4. Gross margin should be 32–34%, as weakness in RF devices due to the  lower volumes is offset by some improvement in both power device and  materials products. “The initial challenges in managing taller boules in our  back-end processing have been resolved, resulting in significantly higher  yields,” says Lowe. “It will take a few months before we return to normal  production schedule for these materials as the improved product makes its way through  the WIP [work-in-process].” Operating expenses should be $98–100m. Net loss are  expected to rise slightly to $15–20m  ($0.12–0.16 per diluted share). During  fiscal Q2/2023, cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments rose from $1197.2m  to $2484.4m, due largely to the completion in  November of a convertible note offering of $1.75bn anchored by strategic  partner BorgWarner. “Our power devices continue to  penetrate more of the market, with strong customer demand and new partnerships  with large multi-national auto manufacturers, such as  Jaguar Land Rover and Mercedes, and automotive tier-1s such as  BorgWarner and ZF,” says Lowe. Quarterly design-ins in fiscal Q2/2023 again  exceeded $1bn, at $1.5bn (70–75% of which  is automotive related). “We are capitalizing on the immense opportunity in  next-generation power devices by expanding our capacity footprint,” says  Lowe. “We  have made great progress in securing funding for our greenfield facility  construction and long-term capacity expansion plan,” notes Reynolds, referring  to construction of the new materials factory in Siler City, North Carolina  and the ramp-up of the Mohawk Valley device fab. “We continue to successfully run  test lots through Mohawk Valley [with yields above expectation], which  gives us confidence that we are ready to begin scaling production and  recognizing revenue from Mohawk Valley in the fourth quarter of this  fiscal year [of the order of single-digit millions of dollars, albeit a quarter  later than originally hoped],” says Lowe. “Mohawk Valley is a  first-of-its-kind fab, purpose built to produce next-generation  silicon carbide power devices. While there may be some variability in  our short-term results as we qualify and scale the world’s first 200mm  silicon carbide device fab while also scaling the first production of  200mm silicon carbide wafers, we are well positioned to capitalize on the  explosive growth that we see through the end of this decade,” he adds. “Our  focus on ramping Mohawk Valley will allow us to better scale our  power device production, while our 200mm materials capacity also scales.  The learnings from Mohawk Valley have given us a blueprint on how we will  approach the construction and ramp of our next fab [since announced as an SiC  device fab to be constructed in Saarland, Germany, with ZF as a minority  partner].” “While customer interest remains strong  across both materials and power devices, silicon carbide production  and manufacturing can present challenges along the way. Our Durham  crystal growth operation, which is the world’s largest  silicon carbide materials factory, currently supplies our entire device  business and a significant share of the merchant market. However, that is still  not enough to support the massive accelerating demand for silicon carbide.  With the intense growth in demand for both captive and merchant wafers comes  challenges of growing our materials output as well,” says Lowe. “The immense demand for both merchant and  captive materials gives us further confidence in our decision [back in  September] to expand the Durham materials footprint and build The John Palmour  Manufacturing Center for Silicon Carbide [in Siler City, named in memory  of the firm’s late founder & chief technology officer, who passed away on  13 November], dramatically expanding our materials capacity [by more than 10x],” says Lowe. “This factory will be a  game changer for our business and will allow us to increase supply at  unprecedented levels compared to what is currently in the marketplace,” he  adds. “Long-term, The John Palmour  Manufacturing Center for Silicon Carbide is critical to addressing the  supply–demand disconnect that will  support our expanding device footprint [at both Mohawk Valley and the planned  fab in Germany], as well as the ever-growing demand for merchant wafers.  Construction of The JP is progressing well since groundbreaking in September  and things remain on track,” says Lowe. “Despite some macroeconomic pressures on  the silicon semiconductor market, we are confident in our long-term outlook and  the strong secular trend for the demand for silicon carbide,” says Lowe. “Silicon carbide  is on the cusp of mass adoption.” “First, electric vehicles were the bright  spot in the auto market in 2022, despite many headlines that auto sales have  slowed. Global EV sales grew more than 65% year-over-year,” says Lowe. “Our  recent partnerships with industry leaders such as Jaguar Land Rover and  Mercedes-Benz point to the strength in the demand for EVs and our ability to  take share in this space. We remain confident in the industry’s strong  long-term fundamentals,” he adds. “Second, our $1.5bn of design-ins in the  quarter point to continued robust demand for our power devices. To-date,  46% of our design-ins have converted to design wins, representing more than 1800  projects. We are coming off multiple quarters of record design-ins, with a  total of more than $16bn of design-ins over the last three years. Our design-in  number continues to be robust and the opportunity pipeline remains at a  staggering $40bn,” remarks Lowe. “We have a strong pipeline of design-ins  across a wide range of applications, including automotive, industrial and  energy. We are increasingly well positioned to capture a significant share of  this opportunity and are committed to investing in the necessary infrastructure  to support our growth,” he adds. “Third, we continue our market-leadership  position in the materials business, the aspect of our business with the highest  barriers to entry. We recently announced an expanded agreement with another  leading supplier of silicon carbide materials, which illustrates the  intense demand. The industry remains supply constrained, and this will continue  to be the case for the foreseeable future.” “The opportunity in silicon carbide  technology is generational, given the pace of adoption we have experienced over  the last few quarters. I have not seen growth like this in my 30 years in  semis,” remarks Lowe. 