MIT-led team demos full-color, vertically stacked RGB micro-LEDs Much like  transistors, LEDs are reaching a limit to how small they can be while also  performing effectively. This is especially noticeable in close-range displays  such as augmented-reality (AR) and  virtual-reality (VR) devices, where  limited pixel density  results in a ‘screen door  effect’ such that users perceive stripes in the space between pixels. Now, a team led by Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) has developed a new way to make sharper,  defect-free displays (‘Vertical  full-colour micro-LEDs via 2D materials-based layer transfer’, Nature volume 614, p81–87 (2023)). Instead  of replacing red, green and blue light-emitting diodes side by side in a  horizontal patchwork, the team has devised a way to stack the diodes to create  vertical, multi-colored pixels. Each stacked  pixel can generate the full commercial range of colors and measures about 4μm wide. The micro-LEDs can be packed to a  density of 5000 pixels  per inch. “This is the smallest micro-LED pixel, and the highest pixel density  reported in the journals,” says Jeehwan Kim, associate professor of mechanical  engineering at MIT. “We show that vertical pixellation is the way to go for  higher-resolution displays in a smaller footprint,” he adds. “For virtual reality, right  now there is a limit to how real they can look,” adds Jiho Shin, a postdoc in  Kim’s research group. “With our vertical micro-LEDs, you could have a  completely immersive experience and wouldn’t be able to distinguish virtual  from reality.” Kim and Shin’s  co-authors include members of Kim’s lab, researchers around MIT, and  collaborators from Georgia Tech Europe, Sejong University, and multiple universities in  the USA, France and Korea. Most existing  digital displays are lit through organic light-emitting diodes (OLEDs), but these can  degrade over time, resulting in permanent burn-in effects on screens. The  technology is also reaching a limit to the size the diodes can be shrunk,  limiting their sharpness and resolution. For  next-generation display technology, researchers are exploring inorganic  micro-LEDs, which could perform better, require less energy, and last longer  than OLEDs. But micro-LED  fabrication requires extreme accuracy, as microscopic pixels of red, green and  blue need to first be grown separately on wafers, then precisely placed on a  plate, in exact alignment with each other in order to properly reflect and  produce various colors and shades. Achieving such microscopic precision is a  difficult task, and entire devices need to be scrapped if pixels are found to  be out of place. “This  pick-and-place fabrication is very likely to misalign pixels in a very small  scale,” Kim says. “If you have a misalignment, you have to throw that material  away, otherwise it could ruin a display.” The MIT team  has devised a potentially less wasteful way to fabricate micro-LEDs that  doesn’t require precise, pixel-by-pixel alignment. The technique is a vertical  LED approach, in contrast to the conventional, horizontal pixel arrangement. Kim’s group  specializes in developing techniques to fabricate pure, ultrathin,  high-performance membranes, with a view toward engineering smaller, thinner,  more flexible and functional electronics. The team previously developed a  method for growing and peeling away perfect, two-dimensional,  single-crystalline material from wafers of silicon and other surfaces — termed  2D material-based layer transfer (2DLT). In the current  study, the researchers employed this same 2DLT approach to grow membranes of  red, green and blue LEDs of near-submicron thickness on two-dimensional  material-coated substrates via remote or van der Waals epitaxy. Mechanical  release then allowed each LED membrane to be peeled away from their base  wafers, before they were stacked together to form layers of red, green and blue  membranes. Top-down fabrication then patterned them into vertical pixels, each  just 4µm wide. “In conventional  displays, each R, G and B pixel is arranged laterally, which limits how small  you can create each pixel,” Shin notes. “Because we are stacking all three  pixels vertically, in theory we could reduce the pixel area by a third.” As a  demonstration, the team fabricated a vertical LED pixel and showed that, by  altering the voltage applied to each of the pixel’s red, green and blue  membranes, they could produce various colors in a single pixel. “If you have a  higher current to red, and weaker to blue, the pixel would appear pink, and so  on,” Shin says. “We’re able to create all the mixed colors, and our display can  cover close to the commercial color space that’s available.” The team plans  to improve the operation of the vertical pixels. So far, they have shown that they  can stimulate an individual structure to produce the full spectrum of colors.  They will work toward making an array of many vertical micro-LED pixels. “You need a  system to control 25 million  LEDs separately,” Shin says. “Here, we’ve only partially demonstrated that. The  active matrix  operation is something we’ll need to further develop.” “For now, we  have shown to the community that we can grow, peel and stack ultrathin LEDs,”  Kim says. “This is the ultimate solution for small displays like smart watches and  virtual-reality devices, where you would want highly densified pixels to make  lively, vivid images.” The research was supported, in part, by the US  National Science Foundation (NSF), the US Defense Advanced Research  Projects Agency (DARPA), the US Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL), the US Department of  Energy, LG Electronics,  Rohm Semiconductor, the French National Research Agency, and the National  Research Foundation in Korea. 