Pilot Photonics announces availability of nanosecond-switching narrow-linewidth widely tunable laser Pilot Photonics of Dublin, Ireland —  which produces light sources and III-V photonic integrated circuits (PICs)  for communications, automotive and space applications — has announced the  availability of a new widely tunable laser module. It is claimed to be the only  commercially available tunable laser that offers the elusive combination of  nanosecond switching and narrow linewidth, solving a long-running challenge in  the industry. Widely tunable semiconductor lasers can typically offer narrow  linewidth, or fast tuning, but not both. In optical fiber sensing systems,  electronically tunable lasers have traditionally been used for their fast  tunability over a wide tuning range, which is achieved using a  current-injection tuning mechanism. However, these lasers exhibit linewidths  that are unsuitable for demanding phase-sensitive applications such as coherent  optical communication and frequency-modulated continuous wave (FMCW) light  detection & ranging (LiDAR). Changing to a thermal tuning mechanism reduces  the linewidth, but at the expense of switching speed, which renders the laser  unsuitable for some of these applications. Pilot Photonics’ laser is based on a monolithic  indium phosphide (InP) chip fabricated on an active–passive  platform. Electro-optic tuning with reverse-voltage bias of tuning sections  allows milliAmp-order dark currents and facilitates nanosecond  switching speeds with low power dissipation. It offers more than 30nm  of wavelength tuning range in either the C-band or the O-band, and linewidth of  150kHz. Currently available in a 14-pin butterfly package or integrated into an  OEM or laboratory instrument form-factor module, the company is also developing  a nano-iTLA (integrated tunable laser assembly)  module for high-volume applications. “We have been working with our partner SMART Photonics on a couple  of innovative tunable laser designs made possible with their PIC  platform,” says Pilot Photonics’ founder & chief technology officer Dr Frank  Smyth. “These devices target specific challenges that our customers are  facing.” At SPIE Photonics West 2023 in San Francisco, CA, USA (31 January–2 February),  Pilot Photonics demonstrated the tunable laser and presented a paper ‘Widely  tunable C-band laser and module with nanosecond tuning and narrow linewidth”  detailing its characterization. 