pSemi’s high-linearity sub-6GHz RF switches reach volume production Murata company pSemi Corp of San Diego,  CA, USA – a fabless provider of radio-frequency integrated circuits  (RFICs) based on silicon-on-insulator (SOI) – has announced the production readiness of two new  high-linearity switches targeted at the latest 5G wireless infrastructure and  massive MIMO base-station  deployments. Covering a frequency range of 1.8–5GHz, each UltraCMOS  PE42443 and PE42444 switch delivers what is claimed to be industry-leading RF  performance across the n41, n77, n78 and n79 bands. Available in two pin-to-pin  compatible configurations, the PE42443 (negative and positive supply voltage)  and the PE42444 (positive supply voltage only) are offered in 4mm x 4mm  LGA packages. By using the new high-linearity switches in hybrid architecture  topologies, base-station designers can save board space  and improve thermal management, reducing the overall system’s cost, weight and  power consumption, says the firm. The new single-pole  four-throw (SP4T) switches deliver fast settling time plus what is claimed to be best-in-class linearity,  low insertion loss and superior  power handling performance to  improve spectral efficiency in sub-6GHz active antenna  systems. 5G base stations  covering sub-6GHz offer network providers an immediate path to wider bandwidths  and increased data throughput. Newly licensed spectrum allocations at 3–5GHz  and 6.4–7.1GHz, along with added antenna design complexities, create the need  for new hybrid beam-forming and phase-shifting topologies. Massive MIMO systems use hybrid architectures to  minimize power-hungry digital processing and reduce the number of power amplifier components. These hybrid  architectures offer the ideal balance of digital and analog, combining the  flexibility of digital beam-forming with the power efficiency and design  simplicity at the analog RF front-end (RFFE), says pSemi. “Active antenna systems are driving a drastic increase in demand  for RFFE components, along with tougher FR1 switching requirements for advanced  5G networks,” notes Vikas Choudhary, VP of sales  & marketing. “pSemi continues to push the boundaries of SOI technology and  design RFIC solutions that empower base-station OEMs and support the demands of  5G and beyond,” he adds. 