MACOM to acquire OMMIC for €38.5m MACOM Technology Solutions Inc of Lowell,  MA, USA (which designs and makes RF, microwave, analog and mixed-signal and optical semiconductor  technologies) has entered into a  definitive agreement through one of its French subsidiaries to acquire the  assets and operations of semiconductor manufacturer OMMIC SAS of  Limeil-Brévannes, near Paris, France, which  has expertise in wafer fabrication, epitaxial growth and monolithic microwave  integrated circuit (MMICs) processing and design. OMMIC has a 40+ year heritage in material science, semiconductor wafer processing and MMIC design.  Its gallium arsenide (GaAs) and  gallium nitride (GaN) compound semiconductor manufacturing capabilities  include multiple European Space Agency (ESA)-qualified semiconductor processes  and products. OMMIC currently operates a 3-inch wafer production line and has recently installed, but is  not currently utilizing, a 6-inch line. MACOM reckons that OMMIC’s portfolio of high-frequency MMIC  products and its design capability will enable it to better address microwave  applications in the telecoms, industrial and aerospace & defense markets. “We are excited to acquire a new engineering and manufacturing  facility located in France,” says president & CEO Stephen G. Daly. “The acquisition of OMMIC is  expected to enable us to further increase our focus on the European markets,  expand our wafer production capability and extend our product offerings to  higher millimeter-wave frequencies, which are all in line with our long-term  strategy,” he adds. “Combining OMMIC’s technology and manufacturing capability  with MACOM’s scale and market presence will be a driver of long-term growth and  profitability.” The purchase price of about €38.5m will be funded with  cash-on-hand and includes real estate  and all associated facilities. The transaction is expected to close during  MACOM’s fiscal second-quarter 2023 and is subject to regulatory approvals and  customary closing conditions. 