Surge handling of GaN polarization superjunctions University of Sheffield in the UK and  Japan-based Powdec K.K. have presented surge current capabilities of 1.2kV gallium nitride (GaN)  polarization superjunction (PSJ) diodes “for the  first time” [Alireza  Sheikhan et al, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., v62, p014501, 2023]. The team comments: “The results show that  GaN PSJ diodes can be highly cost-effective and reliable for high-frequency,  high-efficiency power electronic  designs.” The researchers add: “One of the key  parameters of power diodes is their surge current capability, which is a requirement in cases such as fault  occurrences within a system or inrush current during starting phase.” It is hoped that GaN-based circuits will  enable faster power switching, allowing the use of  smaller magnetic components, such as inductors and transformers, at higher  power density. The implementation of  superjunction conductivity modulation schemes, as commercially implemented in  silicon, allows devices to beat the theoretical material limits of simple one-dimensional  device models. The researchers used an aluminium gallium nitride (AlGaN) layer  sandwiched between two GaN layers to create two-dimensional hole (2DHG) and two-dimensional electron (2DEG) gases at the respective GaN/AlGaN interfaces due to  piezoelectric and spontaneous charge polarization  fields due to the ionic nature of the III-N chemical bonds (Figure 1). “The device uses the concept of polarization charge balance to  achieve a flat distribution of electric field resulting in an enhanced blocking voltage capability,” the team explains.  Figure 1: (a) Top view of 1.2kV GaN PSJ diode chip and (b) cross-sectional schematic structure. The anode (A) and cathode (C) contacts were  interdigitated with 47 and 48 fingers, respectively, resulting in a 2.39mm  diode width. The anode contact was doped  with magnesium (Mg) to give p-type conductivity. The anode electrode was  nickel/gold (Ni/Au), and the cathode had added titanium (Ti) and aluminium. 