POET announces availability of 400G and 800G receive optical engines POET Technologies Inc of Toronto, Ontario,  Canada — a designer and developer of the POET Optical Interposer and  photonic integrated circuits (PICs) for the data-center, telecom and  artificial intelligence (AI) markets — has started sampling 400G FR4  and 800G 2xFR4 receive optical engines (RXOEs). POET will partner with Luxshare  Technology Co Ltd (a subsidiary of  Luxshare Precision Industry Co Ltd of Dongguan, China, that designs and  manufactures datacom facilities and enterprise-level products) as a lead  customer to enable the sale of power-efficient and cost-optimized 400G and 800G  transceiver solutions. “LuxshareTech is focused on expanding its 400G and 800G pluggable  transceivers portfolio for the data-center market,” says Mike Gao, general manager  of LuxshareTech’s Opto-electronic business unit.  “We are pleased to work with POET Technologies and use their highly integrated  chiplet platform to enable us to achieve a solution with superior performance  and ease of compact module assembly,” he adds. “The 400G and 800G FR4 RXOEs are the first of their kind to  integrate photonic and electronic components on a single interposer chiplet,” says  Raju Kankipati, VP of product management  at POET. “We expect customers to benefit from the simplified design, superior  performance and lower cost offered by POET’s wafer-scale integration and  passive assembly of components,” he adds. “LuxshareTech’s experience in  designing and manufacturing high-speed optical transceivers and POET’s  innovative technology can be mutually beneficial in bringing high-volume and  low-cost solutions to the data-center market.” Produced by POET’s joint venture  Super Photonics Xiamen, the 400G FR4  RXOE integrates a quad trans-impedance amplifier (TIA), four high-speed  photodiodes and an optical demultiplexer integrated in a single chiplet  measuring 12x5mm. The 800G 2xFR4 RXOE consists of an integrated octal TIA,  eight high-speed photodiodes and two optical demultiplexers in a single chiplet  measuring 15x5mm. Customers of POET’s RXOEs have the option to procure the engines  with an integrated fiber array unit (FAU), which provides an even more  complete solution for next-generation data-center interconnects. The 400G and  800G RXOEs achieve superior performance through better integration of  photodiodes and TIA and exceed the industry-standard specifications for  400GBASE-FR4 interfaces. POET expects to complete design verification testing and  reliability qualification of the RXOEs in first-half 2023 and to start  production in second-half 2023. 