ZF invests in Wolfspeed to support construction of largest SiC device fab Wolfspeed Inc of  Durham, NC, USA and Germany-based  ZF Friedrichshafen AG (one of the world’s largest suppliers  to the automotive industry) have announced a strategic partnership that  includes the creation of a joint innovation lab to drive advances in silicon carbide (SiC) systems and devices for  mobility, industrial and energy applications. The partnership also includes a  significant investment by ZF to support the planned construction of the world’s  largest 200mm silicon carbide device  fabrication plant in Ensdorf, Germany. Both the joint innovation lab and the  Wolfspeed device fab are planned as part of the Important Project of Common  European Interest (IPCEI) for Microelectronics and Communication Technologies  framework, and are dependent upon state aid approval from the European  Commission. “These initiatives are a significant step  towards a successful industrial transformation,” says ZF’s CEO Dr Holger  Klein. “They strengthen European supply resilience and, at the same time,  support the European Green Deal and the strategic goals for Europe’s  Digital Decade.” The strategic partnership includes a joint  research facility in Germany that will focus on real-world e-mobility and  renewable energy system-level  challenges. The goal of the collaboration is to develop breakthrough  innovations for silicon carbide  systems, products and applications, covering the full value chain from chip to complete systems.  Additional collaboration partners will be invited to participate in the  innovation process, establishing an end-to-end, European silicon carbide innovation network. The R&D center will focus on  innovation for silicon carbide  systems and devices to meet specific requirements in all mobility segments  including consumer, commercial, agricultural and industrial vehicles as well as  in the industrial and renewable energy  markets. The collaboration will drive improvements such as higher efficiency,  increased power density and higher  performances for electrification solutions. Wolfspeed plans to construct a fully  automated 200mm wafer fabrication facility in Saarland, Germany. ZF intends to  support this new construction by making a sizable financial investment of hundreds  of millions of dollars in exchange for Wolfspeed common stock. As a part of this investment, ZF will have a  minority ownership stake in the fab. Wolfspeed will maintain all operational  and management control rights. Previously, in November 2019, ZF and Wolfspeed (then  called Cree) announced a strategic partnership to create highly efficient  electric drivelines with a silicon carbide  inverter, and these new initiatives represent the next generation of innovation  for the partners. “We have a strong partner by our side in  ZF, which brings industry-leading experience in scaling components for electric  mobility as well as the aptitude to accelerate innovation in silicon carbide systems and power devices,” says Wolfspeed’s  president & CEO Gregg Lowe. “This partnership will lift silicon carbide semiconductor technology to a new  level of global impact, supporting increased sustainability and efficiency  efforts across a multitude of industries,” he adds. “Together, Wolfspeed and ZF combine  expertise in power electronics and systems with a know-how in applications that  is unparalleled in the industry,” claims ZF’s board member Stephan von  Schuckmann. “Wolfspeed brings its more than 35 years  in silicon carbide technology, and  at ZF we have a unique understanding of the overall systems across all sectors  - from passenger cars and commercial vehicles to construction machinery, wind power and industrial applications,” he  adds. “The close cooperation between fab and R&D center will enable us to  develop breakthrough innovations beyond state of the art  for the benefit of our customers.” 