Wolfspeed chooses Germany for site of largest silicon carbide device fab Wolfspeed Inc of Durham, NC, USA has announced plans to build a highly  automated 200mm-wafer silicon carbide  (SiC) device fabrication facility — the largest in the world — in Ensdorf near  Saarbrücken, in the south-western German state of Saarland. The firm’s first  fab in Europe will be its most advanced, creating an SiC development and  production facility in the European Union  (EU) to support growing demand for a wide variety of automotive, industrial and  energy applications. The fab is planned as part of a collaboration within the IPCEI (Important  Project of Common European Interest) for the Microelectronics and Communication  Technologies framework, and is dependent on state aid  approval from the European Commission.  IPCEI funding is intended to support technology development and initial  deployment within this project. Germany-based ZF Friedrichshafen AG (one of the world’s largest suppliers  to the automotive industry) also intends to support the new construction by  making a sizable financial investment as part of a new strategic partnership. The European fab is an important part of  the Wolfspeed’s broader $6.5bn capacity expansion, which includes opening the  200mm Mohawk Valley Fab in Marcy,  NY, USA in April 2022, and the construction in North Carolina of the 445-acre (180-hectare)  John Palmour Manufacturing Center  for Silicon Carbide (the world’s largest  SiC crystal growth facility), which will expand the firm’s existing materials  capacity by more than 10x. The first phase of construction for the materials  facility is due to be complete by the end of fiscal 2024.  “This new fab represents a big step  forward for both Wolfspeed and our regional customers, as we enhance the  ecosystem for semiconductor production and innovation,” says president &  CEO Gregg Lowe. “Silicon carbide  devices offer greater energy efficiency  and are essential in the global shift toward sustainable electrification,” he  adds. “This new facility will be crucial to supporting our expansion in a  capacity-constrained industry that is growing very rapidly, especially across  the electric vehicle (EV)  marketplace. It was important for us to have a facility located in the heart of  Europe, near many of our customers and partners, to foster collaboration on the  next generation of silicon carbide technologies.” The announcement was made at an event on  the 35-acre (14-hectare) site of the planned fab, a former coal-fired power plant  in Saarland. To welcome Wolfspeed to the region, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz  was in attendance, along with Robert Habeck, Vice Chancellor of Germany and  Federal Minister for Economic Affairs  and Climate Action, and Saarland’s  Minister-President Anke Rehlinger. Representing the new partnership were ZF’s  CEO Holger Klein and board member Stephan von Schuckmann. Wolfspeed also  announced a strategic partnership with ZF that includes an investment in  Wolfspeed as well as a joint Silicon Carbide  R&D facility in Germany, which is part of the same IPCEI framework. Fab  construction is expected to begin in first-half 2023, subject to approval by  the EU Commission. 