ams OSRAM to benefit from Apple adopting micro-LEDs According to market research firm TrendForce, Apple is expected to  adopt micro-LEDs for its consumer electronic products in the near future.  The Apple Watch will likely be the first of its products to feature a micro-LED  display, and adoption is expected to occur in 2024. Then, during 2026-2030, the  scope of application of micro-LEDs could expand to encompass artificial reality  (AR) headset displays, smartphone displays, automotive displays etc. The Apple Watch as a product line was launched in 2015 and has  been on the market for more than eight years. The latest model (Apple Watch  Ultra) was released near the end of 2022 and offers improvements to display  specifications. Apple enlarged the display size to 1.93-inches and raised the  display brightness level to 2000nits. These upgrades indicate that smartwatch  brands continue to seek a larger and sharper display that can show texts  clearly in an outdoor setting. TrendForce believes that Apple will make a breakthrough for its  smartwatch in 2024 by incorporating micro-LEDs. With this technology, the Apple  Watch’s display could exceed 2-inches and achieve an even higher contrast  level. Such improvements would satisfy the viewing needs of professionals and  enthusiasts of various outdoor sporting activities. TrendForce points out that Apple has always been careful about  adopting a new technology, and its process for evaluating a new technology is  very lengthy. On the other hand, once Apple has decided to use a particular  technology, the company usually tries to apply it across different product  lines. Take organic light-emitting diode (OLED) displays as an example.  Besides being incorporated into the Apple Watch and the iPhone, the OLED  display is expected to be featured in iPad models for 2024 and the MacBook  models for the 2025-2026 period. With the penetration of OLEDs among Apple’s  products serving as the prime case study, TrendForce believes that Apple  will begin the gradual introduction of micro-LEDs, starting in 2024. Whether micro-LEDs are incorporated into smartwatches, AR headsets  or smartphones, two major factors will determine the market competitiveness of  this technology, reckons TrendForce. The first factor involves lowering the costs of micro-LED chips. A  notable solution to making the production of micro-LED chips much more  economical is to enlarge the wafers that they are made from. Currently, the  production lines for mainstream micro-LED chips take 6-inch wafers. Switching  to 8-inch wafers will certainly result in a considerable cost reduction. The second factor is flexibility. The micro-LED has to work with  different types of backplanes that contain glass, CMOS, etc. A reliable  semiconductor manufacturing process is needed to serve as the basis for scaling  up production. Such a process is also critical for the provisioning of a total  solution (i.e. from chip production to mass transfer, inspection, and  repair). Among suppliers of LED chips, ams OSRAM has formed the  tightest collaborative relationship with Apple in the field of micro-LEDs at  this time because it has advantages in addressing the two aforementioned  factors. In the future, ams OSRAM will very likely become Apple’s key  partner in supplying the micro-LED components that are embedded in  next-generation displays, reckons TrendForce. Looking at the new kinds of display technologies that have emerged  lately, micro-OLED and micro-LED are the ones capable of meeting the demand for  a high number of pixels per inch (PPI). However, micro-OLEDs cannot  reach the higher level of brightness that micro LED can achieve due to some  inherent material-related limitations. Currently, there is a market rumor saying that Apple will be  unveiling a headset device featuring a micro-OLED display this year.  Nevertheless, in the development of AR headsets over the medium to long term,  TrendForce believes that making a headset with a completely transparent display  will require optical waveguide technology. However, incorporating optical  waveguides will reduce the original brightness of a display by as much as 99%.  Therefore, micro-LEDs – due to their huge brightness advantage – can provide  the sufficient leeway to compensate for this massive loss of brightness. If  Apple wants to release an AR headset or a pair of AR glasses that features a  completely transparent display in the future, then micro-LEDs are most likely  its first choice for the display technology. Turning to the smartphone market, most brands in the Android camp  have made foldable OLED displays a main design feature for their upcoming  flagship models. However, as the second largest smartphone brand, Apple has yet  to enter the much-discussed market segment for foldable OLED models. TrendForce  believes a possible reason as to why Apple is slow to enter this segment is its  focus on micro-LEDs. In addition to rigid backplanes that have glass and CMOS,  micro-LED are also highly suitable for flexible backplanes made of PI or other  kinds of material with similar attributes. Also, by adopting micro-LEDs, Apple  may be able to make iPhone displays foldable, rollable and even ‘stretchable’  in the future. Hence, micro-LEDs have the potential to be the key technology  that Apple will use to realize game-changing product innovations and thereby  get further ahead of other brands in the market, reckons TrendForce. 