Veeco acquires silicon carbide CVD system maker Epiluvac Epitaxial deposition and process equipment maker Veeco Instruments Inc  of Plainview, NY, USA has  acquired Epiluvac AB of Lund, Sweden, which  was founded in 2013 and makes silicon carbide  (SiC) chemical vapor deposition (CVD)  equipment. It is reckoned that Epiluvac’s technology platform, combined  with Veeco’s global go-to-market capabilities, create a significant long-term  growth driver for Veeco. The desire for  clean, efficient and reduced fossil-fuel energy is driving tremendous growth in  the electric vehicle market, notes  Veeco. Applications such as on-board charging, fast charging and powertrain inverters are ideally suited for silicon carbide (SiC) power devices, it adds. The SiC device market  is forecasted to grow at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of about 30% from  2023 through 2027, according to market research firm Yole Group. Correspondingly,  the SiC epitaxy equipment market is expected to grow at a CAGR of about 15%,  according to Yole Group and internal Veeco estimates. “The Epiluvac  team has developed a superior platform and process know-how aligned with  markets that are a great strategic fit for Veeco,” comments Veeco’s CEO Bill  Miller. “Their well-designed CVD platform achieves high productivity, is easy  to maintain and has superior process control  capability that make it uniquely qualified to produce devices that enable  lighter, smaller and more efficient power conversion  systems. We see this acquisition as a great complement to our metal-organic  chemical vapor deposition (MOCVD)  epitaxy product line. This acquisition accelerates our penetration into the  emerging, high-growth SiC equipment market by reducing our time to market,” he  adds. “Our  complementary technology platforms, along with Veeco’s extensive worldwide  sales, service and manufacturing capabilities, will position us well to help  our customers enable accelerated SiC adoption,” reckons Epiluvac’s CEO  Per-Anders Eriksson. “The decades of research and development the Epiluvac team  has invested in this demanding epitaxial process will be a great asset to  Veeco’s already impressive process capabilities.” Epiluvac is an  early-stage revenue company with 11 employees. The purchase price, all payable  in cash, is $30m, paid at the time of closing, with a potential additional $35m  in performance-based earn-outs. The impact to Veeco’s financial results are not  expected to be material in 2023, and volume revenue is expected to begin in  2024. 