BluGlass launches suite of 405nm, 420nm and 450nm single- and multi-mode lasers At SPIE Photonics West 2023  in San Francisco, CA, USA (28 January to 2 February), BluGlass Ltd of  Silverwater, Australia – which has developed proprietary low-temperature,  low-hydrogen remote-plasma chemical vapor deposition (RPCVD) technology – has  launched its first suite of gallium nitride  (GaN) laser products available for customer purchase, spanning 405nm, 420nm and  450nm wavelengths in both single-mode and multi-mode devices, specifically: Customers can  inspect performance data and purchase the products in a range of form factors including TO-cans of different  sizes and chip-on-submounts. The suite of  available products has passed entry-level commercial specifications following  significant product development, optimization, and performance and reliability  testing.  BluGlass says that it has received interest from customers wanting  to deploy its lasers in their product development programs, which span  applications including 3D printing,  quantum sensing and computing, material  sensing, and flow cytometry. “The release of these laser diodes reflects the significant  performance and reliability improvements we have made over the past year,” says  president Jim Haden. “The market is telling us there is a growing need for a  dedicated GaN laser supplier who can  provide greater manufacturing agility and form factor  flexibility, to enable manufacturers to expand their product offerings and  market applications. We have several potential customers interested in our  portfolio, and this significant milestone paves the way for first orders and  commercial revenues,” he adds. “Our product offering will continue to grow and improve — with expanded wavelengths,  higher-power and novel laser architectures also progressing through the supply chain. We expect the execution of our  ongoing vertical integration plans to further improve quality and accelerate  development timelines for future products and enable us to scale manufacturing  capacity to meet demand,” Haden continues. “The visible laser market is a high-value and high-margin  semiconductor segment that is growing rapidly, with ubiquitous use in  everything from consumer electronics, advanced manufacturing to medical  diagnostics, quantum computing, and  defense applications,” he adds. “Within the broader market, GaN lasers offer  inherent advantages over traditional infrared laser diodes, including higher energy absorption in key industrial metals, tighter beam focus, and improved efficiency. These  competitive advantages are driving significant interest from global customers.” In addition to the launched products, laser diode designs in other  wavelengths and specifications are progressing through BluGlass’ supply chain, including RPCVD-enhanced products. 