New customer selects Aehr’s FOX system for wafer-level test and burn-in of SiC devices for EVs Semiconductor production test and reliability  qualification equipment supplier Aehr Test Systems of Fremont, CA, USA says that a new customer, which supplies  silicon carbide and gallium nitride semiconductor devices, has  selected its FOX-P system for qualification and production wafer-level test and  burn-in of its silicon carbide devices for automotive electric vehicles. Aehr says that the FOX solution was chosen on the basis of its  proven ability to cost-effectively implement the customer’s target burn-in and  stabilization requirements including 100% traceability that every device on the  wafer is properly burned in. The customer will begin its device qualification using an  outsourced semiconductor assembly and test (OSAT) supplier that has partnered  with Aehr and has FOX-P system capacity installed and capable of doing SiC  full-wafer-level test and burn-in of 100% of devices per wafer in a single  insertion. The customer will purchase the proprietary FOX WaferPak full-wafer  contactors and applications test programs from Aehr, and testing services from  the assembly & test supplier for the initial device qualification. Upon  qualification of the devices, the customer is expected to purchase new FOX-P  system and WaferPak capacity directly from Aehr or through the OSAT. “Traceability and proof that each device is burned in for the  needed test duration, without any chance of a test escape that might allow a  device to get through the process and later fail in the field, is critical to  the automotive applications these devices will be used in,” says Aehr Test Systems’  president & CEO Gayn Erickson. In the case of silicon carbide used in  the traction inverters that convert the high-voltage DC battery power to  AC current that drives the electric engines, a device failure results in a  ‘walk home event’, where the driver and all passengers get out of the  vehicle and walk home. “Aehr’s FOX-P systems and proprietary WaferPak full-wafer  Contactors enable our customers to do economical production volume test  and reliability burn-in with processes such as high-temperature gate bias (HTGB)  and high-temperature reverse bias (HTRB) very cost effectively and ensure  extremely high device quality. Our systems provide test cycle duration  lasting for 12, 18 or 24 hours or more for pennies or cents per device  capital depreciation cost, and in a footprint that is up to 18 times less  than a typical test system on a standard semiconductor wafer prober offered by  alternative suppliers,” he adds. “Aehr has teamed with this OSAT to provide turnkey support of  multiple applications including silicon photonics devices used in data, 5G  and future central processing units (CPUs) and chipsets, in addition to silicon carbide  and gallium nitride used in electric vehicles, solar, industrial and  other infrastructure.” Forecasts from William Blair estimate that the silicon carbide  market for devices in electric vehicles alone, such as traction inverters  and on-board chargers, will rise at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of  48.4% from 119,000 6-inch-equivalent silicon carbide wafers in 2021 to  more than 4.1 million 6-inch-equivalent wafers in 2030, i.e. almost 35  times larger. In addition, 6-inch-equivalent silicon carbide wafers for  other markets such as solar, industrial and other electrification  infrastructure are expected to grow to another 3 million wafers by 2030. “The FOX family of compatible systems including the FOX-NP and  FOX-XP multi-wafer test and burn-in systems and Aehr’s proprietary WaferPak  full-wafer contactors provide a uniquely cost-effective solution for burning in  multiple wafers of devices at a single time to remove early life failures  of silicon carbide devices, which is critical to meeting the initial  quality and long-term reliability the automotive, industrial and  electrification infrastructure industry needs,” says Erickson. “The FOX-XP  system can be configured with up to 9 or 18 wafers depending on the customer’s  specific test requirements and power configuration and is fully compatible  with Aehr’s FOX-NP system, which is a two-wafer system that is a great fit for  new product introduction and qualification.” The FOX-XP and FOX-NP systems, available with multiple WaferPak Contactors  (full-wafer test) or multiple DiePak Carriers (singulated die/module test)  configurations, are capable of functional test and burn-in/cycling of devices  such as silicon carbide and gallium nitride power semiconductors,  silicon photonics as well as other optical devices, 2D and 3D  sensors, flash memories, magnetic sensors, microcontrollers, and other  leading-edge ICs in either wafer form factor, before they are assembled  into single- or multi-die stacked packages, or in singulated die or module form factor. 