Quarterly smartphone shipments fall a record 18.3% year-on-year to 300.3 million in Q4/2022 According to preliminary data  from the International Data Corporation (IDC) Worldwide Quarterly Mobile Phone  Tracker, global smartphone shipments fell by 18.3% year-on-year to 300.3 million  units in fourth-quarter 2022. This is the largest-ever decline in a single  quarter and contributed to a steep 11.3% decline for full-year 2022 to 1.21 billion  units — the  lowest annual total since 2013 — due to significantly dampened consumer  demand, inflation and economic uncertainties. This tough close to the year puts  the 2.8% recovery expected for 2023 in serious jeopardy, with heavy downward  risk to the forecast, notes IDC. “We have never seen shipments  in the holiday quarter come in lower than the previous quarter. However,  weakened demand and high inventory caused vendors to cut back drastically on  shipments,” says Nabila Popal, research director with IDC’s Worldwide Tracker  team. “Heavy sales and promotions during the quarter helped deplete existing  inventory rather than drive shipment growth. Vendors are increasingly cautious  in their shipments and planning while realigning their focus on profitability.  Even Apple, which thus far was seemingly immune, suffered a setback in its  supply chain with unforeseen lockdowns at its key factories in China. What  this holiday quarter tells us is that rising inflation and growing macro concerns  continue to stunt consumer spending even more than expected and push out any  possible recovery to the very end of 2023,” she adds. “We continue to witness  consumer demand dwindle as refresh rates climb past 40 months in most  major markets,” says Anthony Scarsella, research director with IDC’s Worldwide  Quarterly Mobile Phone Tracker. “With 2022 declining more than 11% for the  year, 2023 is set up to be a year of caution as vendors will rethink their  portfolio of devices while channels will think twice before taking on excess  inventory,” he adds. “However, on a positive note, consumers may find even more  generous trade-in offers and promotions continuing well into 2023 as the market  will think of new methods to drive upgrades and sell more devices, specifically  high-end models.” 