Aixtron launching G10-AsP system at Photonic West Deposition equipment  maker Aixtron SE of Herzogenrath, near Aachen, Germany is launching what it says is the first fully automated AsP (arsenide–phosphide) platform on the market, enabling  robust high-volume production linked to very complex requirements. The new  system G10-AsP specifically addresses the growing demands in the micro-LED and  laser device sectors. “Micro-LEDs will revolutionize the world  of displays as they offer better durability, higher lifetime, a better picture  quality and a very low energy consumption. However, this innovative  technology challenges the production process as it requires lowest defect levels  and highest uniformity rates,” says CEO & president Dr Felix Grawert.  “The new system enables the highest throughput of its class with uniformity and  defect levels never seen before.” For the first time, true mass production  of micro-LEDs with the most tightened material requirements and reduced chip sizes  of 10μm and lower is becoming a reality,  says Aixtron. The G10-AsP also meets the complex requirements to produce indium phosphide  (InP) laser and VCSELs (vertical-cavity surface-emitting lasers) in high  volume. The new platform G10-AsP will officially  be launched on 1 February during the Photonic West 2023 exhibition in  San Francisco, CA, USA, where Aixtron will  present the new system, explaining the innovations that in the new platform and  how it will provide what is claimed to be the highest throughput of its class  and maximize cleanroom utilization. Picture:   Aixtron’s new fully automated AIX G10-AsP  system. The G10-AsP is reckoned to be the largest  200mm AsP batch reactor on the market and comes with in-situ cleaning  and automated cassette-to-cassette (C2C) wafer loading. For the first time, the  front-end can be equipped with SMIF (Standard Mechanical Interface) pods to  further minimize exposure of the epitaxial wafers to the room environment. With  in-situ cleaning built-in, users can reset the chamber conditions on  demand – either after each process run for the most demanding requirements or  just after a production campaign to benefit from highest throughputs. The  platform is based on Planetary Reactor technology, which combines the  multi-wafer batch reactor concept with single-wafer rotation for the  highest wafer uniformity. Micro-LEDs will not only be used for the  next generation of TV displays but also for future smartwatches, smartphones,  augmented reality (AR) projection or automotive displays. Analysts expect  this area to be the largest market for LEDs in the next 5–10 years. The one big challenge to reaching the next  level for not only advanced micro-LEDs but also InP and VCSEL applications  remains uniformity. Optimized on-wafer uniformity and wafer-to-wafer uniformity  must be accomplished in a high-volume production process. The new G10-AsP is  said to set a new standard with respect to these values, offering a  two-to-threefold improvement compared with its predecessor. It is hence  reckoned that this fully automated platform will initiate a new era for  producing micro-LED and photonic devices, overcoming major obstacles that  previously have prevented robust mass production. In telecoms, photonic devices such as infrared  lasers and detectors have laid the foundation for managing the ever-growing  data volumes linked to continuously higher bandwidth requirements. Also,  they enable 3D sensing (e.g. for facial recognition) and advanced  technologies for autonomous driving: With the continuous evolution of this  technology, beams must map larger and wider areas. This calls for tighter  wavelength tolerances, which translates into very tight requirements for epitaxial layer  deposition. Aixtron says that the new G10-AsP can address this need by  providing significantly refined control of the epitaxial process with improved  material accuracy, reduced defect levels and, as a result, higher yield  and better uniformity. In the production of micro-LEDs, improved  uniformity is a prerequisite for economically viable mass production:  micro-LED displays rely on a special stamp or matrix transfer process where  thousands of LED chips (arrays) of just a few microns in size are picked  up and transferred. Because entire arrays of pixels are transferred from the  epiwafer substrate, almost perfect uniformity is required – to avoid, for  example, a smartwatch or smartphone display having a different color in one  corner than the other. 