onsemi and VW collaborate on silicon carbide for next-gen EVs Power semiconductor IC supplier  onsemi of Phoenix, AZ, USA has signed a strategic agreement with  Germany’s Volkswagen AG to provide modules and semiconductors that enable  a complete electric vehicle (EV) traction inverter solution for VW’s  next-generation platform family. The semiconductors are part of an overall  system optimization and provide a solution that will support the front and rear  traction inverters in the VW models. As a first step in the agreement, onsemi will deliver its silicon carbide-based  EliteSiC 1200V traction inverter power modules. The EliteSiC power modules  are pin-to-pin compatible to easily scale the solution to different power  levels and types of motors. Teams from the two firms have been collaborating  for more than a year on optimization of the power modules for the  next-generation platform, with pre-production samples under development and  evaluation. “The superior performance and quality of onsemi’s traction  inverter modules, together with our joint efforts to create the best system  solution, enable us to deliver the outstanding driving experience and quality  customers expect from a VW group vehicle,” says Karsten Schnake, head of the  operative and strategic semiconductor taskforce COMPASS at Volkswagen.  “onsemi’s broad portfolio of intelligent power and sensing solutions further  allows us to offer cutting-edge technologies and features in our EVs, from the  traction inverter and beyond,” he adds. “Besides this milestone, onsemi — with  its balanced production facility layout in the USA, Asia and Europe, including  the plant in the Czech Republic — is the perfect match to support our strategic  markets with all high-voltage solutions and more.” With 19 wafer fabrication and packaging manufacturing sites,  onsemi provides VW with more than 500 different devices — including IGBTs,  MOSFETs, image sensors and power management integrated circuits  (PMICs). In addition, onsemi has a vertical silicon carbide production  chain — which includes volume boule growth, wafering, substrate, epitaxy,  device fabrication, best-in-class integrated modules and discrete package  solutions — that supports a secured supply chain. “Our broad manufacturing footprint — including a resilient  end-to-end SiC supply chain — empowers onsemi to deliver the supply  assurance OEMs demand,” says Simon Keeton, executive VP & general manager,  Power Solutions Group, onsemi. ”Our investments in ramping production  globally, especially in silicon carbide, further allow us to support VW’s  rapidly scaling EV production.” The inverter solution for EVs consists of onsemi’s EliteSiC 1200V  3x half-bridge modules, and this system solution supports both axle inverters  covering a wide range of power. 