Filtronic buys automated wedge bonder for power semis, automotive power modules and industrial power hybrids Filtronic plc of Sedgefield, County Durham, UK — which designs and manufactures RF, microwave and millimeter-wave  (mmWave) components and subsystems — has further enhanced its hybrid and  semiconductor packaging capabilities by investing in a fully automated wedge bonder suitable for power semiconductors, automotive power modules, and industrial power hybrids.  The auto-wedge bonder improves  capacity and adds volume process capabilities that will enable the firm to  explore new markets. Filtronic says that the  addition to its production line will  allow it to offer greater that 1μm die bonding accuracy, improving production  yields and delivering highly repeatable packaging solutions. Bonding custom compound semiconductor  die for high-reliability and system-critical applications requires precision  and high levels of accuracy. Historically, Filtronic has used automated die attach and ball bonding but relied on highly trained operators to perform  specialist wedge bonding operations.  This approach has delivered high-quality products but constrained factory  throughput and limited the applications served. The automated wedge bonder investment fully automates  front-end assembly at Filtronic’s hybrid manufacturing facility, and delivers  significantly faster bonding speed  using a variety of wire diameters, from 0.5mil to 3mil. The wedge bonder will also be highly complementary  to the specialist manual processes required for legacy applications. “The automated wedge bonder further improves Filtronic’s agility,  allowing us to introduce new products quicker than ever before, without  compromising on quality,” says Marc Adamson, continuous improvement manager at Filtronic. “Our team of experts have  trained to become specialists in the artisan skill of manual wire bonding, in some cases over several  years. The introduction of the automated wedge bonder  frees them up to work on alternative use cases,  improving Filtronic’s agility across the entire business,” he adds. “Filtronic is committed to investing in resources which allow us  to consistently deliver volume production with pinpoint accuracy at high  tolerances,” continues Adamson. “The introduction of this new piece of  equipment is the next step in our long-term plan to continuously improve our  service offering for customers.” 