Navitas acquiring remaining stake in silicon control IC JV Gallium nitride (GaN) power IC and  silicon carbide (SiC) technology firm Navitas Semiconductor of Torrance,  CA, USA has agreed to acquire  the remaining minority interest in its silicon control IC joint venture  from Halo Microelectronics (which develops analog and power management integrated circuits) for $20m in Navitas stock. In 2021, Navitas and Halo created a joint venture to develop application-specific silicon controllers  that are optimized to work in combination with Navitas GaN ICs to set new standards for efficiency,  density, cost and integration for a wide range of applications. The first family of products has been developed and released to  production, addressing AC–DC power supply  applications across mobile, consumer, home appliance  and auxiliary power supplies in  enterprise, renewables, electric vehicles  (EV) and other related markets. The  silicon controller and GaN ICs  combine either as a chip-set or are co-packaged, to target 20–500W  applications, and have already been adopted by dozens of customers set to  introduce their next-generation products later this year. As Navitas was already the majority shareholder, financial results  from the joint venture have already  been reflected in Navitas’ historical financial statements and guidance. The  transaction is expected to close in February. The addressable market potential  for this additional silicon controller  capability is estimated to exceed $1bn per year by 2026. “This is another strategic acquisition for Navitas as we integrate  critical silicon controller capabilities with our leading-edge GaN and SiC  technologies,” says CEO & co-founder Gene Sheridan. “Silicon controllers  are needed in all power systems and  largely define the architecture of those systems. By combining silicon  controllers with GaN and SiC, Navitas is uniquely positioned to influence  customer architecture decisions to maximize the system benefits and Navitas’  value when using GaN or SiC in next-generation power electronics,” he reckons. 