NEC achieves record output power in 150GHz band using mass-producible GaAs technology Tokyo-based NEC Corp has developed a  power amplifier that can serve as a  key device for mobile access and fronthaul/backhaul wireless communication  equipment to enable high-speed, high-capacity communications for 5G Advanced and 6G networks. The power amplifier uses gallium arsenide (GaAs) technology that can be mass produced and has achieved record output power of 10mW  in the 150GHz band. Capitalizing on this, NEC aims to fast-track both equipment  development and social implementation. 5G Advanced and 6G are expected  to deliver 100Gbps-class high-speed, high-capacity communications, equivalent  to 10 times the speed of existing 5G. This can be effectively achieved through  the use of the sub-terahertz band (100–300GHz),  which can provide a wide bandwidth of 10GHz or more. In particular, early  commercialization of the D band (130–174.8GHz) – which is internationally allocated for fixed-wireless  communications – is expected. NEC says that it continues to make advances in  technology development by leveraging its knowledge of high-frequency bands  cultivated through the development and operation of radio equipment for 5G base stations  and PASOLINK, an ultra-compact microwave communication system that connects  base stations via wireless  communication. The newly developed power amplifier  uses a commercially available 0.1μm GaAs pseudomorphic high-electron-mobility  transistor (pHEMT) process. Compared with silicon-based CMOS and silicon germanium (SiGe) used for the sub-terahertz band, GaAs  pHEMTs have high operating voltage  and lower initial costs for mass production. Picture:   NEC’s newly developed D-band power amplifier. In terms of circuit design, the power amplifier  eliminates factors that degrade performance in the high-frequency band and uses  an impedance-matching network configuration suitable for high output power. This has resulted in the achievement of  excellent high-frequency characteristics between 110GHz and 150GHz as well as  the world’s highest output power for a GaAs pHEMT. In addition to the realization of  high-performance, low-cost radio communication equipment above  100GHz, it is expected that the power amplifier  will accelerate the social implementation of 5G Advanced and 6G. NEC says that, going forward, it will continue to  develop technologies aimed at achieving high-speed, high-capacity,  cost-effective wireless communications for 5G Advanced and 6G. This research is supported by the Ministry of  Internal Affairs and Communications in Japan (JPJ000254). NEC is announcing further details regarding this  technology at the IEEE Topical Conference on RF/Microwave Power Amplifiers for Radio and Wireless Applications  (PAWR2023) in Las Vegas (22–25 January. 