Dutch consortium invests €3.5m in LioniX A Dutch consortium  led by Invest-NL and FORWARD.one, and further consisting of Universiteit Twente  Holding, Oost NL  and Netherlands-based PhotonDelta, has  invested €3.5m in LioniX  International BV (LXI) of Enschede, The Netherlands, which designs  and produces customized integrated microsystems,  photonics, sensing and micro-electro-mechanical systems (MEMS) for OEMs and  system integrators. The consortium sees  investment in LioniX International as an illustration of its commitment to  further strengthening the Dutch deep-tech ecosystem and ChipTech Twente in particular. LioniX has developed the proprietary  TriPleX photonic integrated circuit (PIC) platform, which is based on  stoichiometric silicon nitride  (SiN) proprietary waveguide technology realized by low-pressure chemical vapor  deposition (LPCVD). This enables the development of applications ranging from augmented reality/virtual reality  (AR/VR), (bio)sensing and telecom to photonic quantum computing.  Its solutions are critical for the advancement of technologies for a range of  industries including healthcare, aerospace, defense and telecoms. As a vertically integrated player within  the Dutch deep-tech ecosystem, LioniX offers  full module product development and production for its OEM customers with  services including microfabrication, packaging & assembly, prototyping,  testing & characterization, and engineering design. This module development  is based on an extensive library of validated building blocks from which customized modules are built. “This  set of investors enables further growth for LioniX International,” says CEO Arne Leinse. “We are excited to  continue developing and delivering cutting-edge microsystem solutions to our  current, and new clients around the globe,” he adds. “This  investment is an exciting step forward for both LioniX International and the  Dutch tech industry as a whole,” comments Leo Holwerda, director capital  at Invest-NL. “It fits perfectly  with the ambitions of our Deep Tech Fund, which aims  to invest in knowledge-intensive start- and scale-ups that have the potential  to bring innovation in the Netherlands to the next level,” he adds. “LioniX  has developed a technology that is a leader in the field of photonics with  numerous potential applications,” comments Paul Pruijmboom, general partner at FORWARD.one. “As a high-quality Dutch deep-tech company, LioniX exemplifies the  innovative potential of the Netherlands,” he adds. “With  this investment in LioniX we strengthen our position in chip technology in East Netherlands,”  says Chimwemwe de Gaay Fortman, director capital  at Oost NL. “Together we built  a strong Dutch photonics cluster with global impact.” “This  investment in LioniX International is a further enhancement of the tech  ecosystem in Twente, and will help to further establish Twente as one of the  key photonics and quantum technology hubs in Europe,” believes Ellen Velthuis, chief financial officer at University of Twente Holding. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy of the Netherlands and Invest-NL  launched their Deep Tech Fund (DTF)  in early 2022. The DTF aims to invest in companies with innovative, complex  technologies, like LioniX. These investments are reckoned to be crucial for the  future of the Dutch economy and, more specifically, contribute to the aim to  strengthen knowledge and innovation within the Netherlands and the European Union. 