CEA and Renault develop wide-bandgap-based bidirectional on-board charger for EVs CEA (the French Atomic and Renewable Energy Commission) and  Renault Group are working on future generations of vehicle-to-grid (V2G),  the bidirectional exchange technology that enables electric vehicles to  restore part of the electricity stored in their batteries to optimize the  operation of the grid and compensate for the intermittent nature of  renewable energies.  To this end,  the CEA and Renault Group have jointly developed a new electronic  power converter architecture directly integrated into the  charger of electric vehicles. The result of nearly three years of  research and the subject of 11 joint patents, this power converter, developed  from innovative materials and more compact, should reduce energy losses by  30%, improve the vehicle’s recharging time and guarantee the battery’s  durability. Also, it will be bidirectional by storing energy from the electricity  network. The CEA and  Renault Group R&D teams have combined their expertise in on-board power electronics,  in particular in wide-bandgap  semiconductor materials, whether gallium nitride (GaN) or  silicon carbide (SiC). As a result,  the new architecture based on the wide-bandgap semiconductor materials makes it  possible to reduce energy losses by 30% during conversion,  and to reduce heating by the same amount, making it easier to cool the  conversion system. In addition,  the engineers’ work to optimize the active (semiconductors) and passive  (capacitors and wound inductive components) components has enabled a reduction in the  volume and cost of the charger. Due to the use of ferrite  materials, dedicated to high frequency, and a shaping injection process (power  injection molding), the converter has become more compact. This new  converter architecture offers a charging capacity of up to 22kW in three-phase mode,  allowing for faster charging of the vehicle while ensuring the durability of  the battery. It also allows the charger to be bidirectional, so that the energy  stored in the battery can be fed back into the grid or used to supply the  energy needs of an autonomous house, provided that the house is equipped with a  bidirectional meter. The solution is compatible with the electromagnetic  compatibility (EMC) standards of the networks and the car. “This project with the CEA has  exceeded our expectations by confirming the ability to achieve the expected  performance in terms of efficiency and compactness,” says Jean-François  Salessy, VP advanced engineering, Renault Group. “It opens up strong  prospects for power electronics, which is a real challenge in the electric vehicle, in order to  make the best use of the batteries’ capacities. With bidirectional charging,  the vehicle serves the electrical network and enables the end consumer to reduce  energy costs,” he adds. “We were able to bring together  Renault Group’s system vision  for the electrification of the vehicle and the drive train, and the skills  of our teams in converter architectures and components; in the end, we  implemented an architecture adapted to the needs and with high added value,” says  CEA-Leti’s  CEO Sébastien Dauvé. “The use of innovative materials  with joint Renault Group-CEA patents on  the charger made it possible to manufacture the dedicated transformer, which is  a key component in this type of development, as it allows for a reduction in  volume with performance that goes beyond the state of the art,” says  CEA-Liten’s CEO  François Legalland. 