POET collaborates with ADVA on highly integrated 4x100G solutions POET Technologies Inc of Toronto, Ontario,  Canada — a designer and developer of the POET Optical Interposer and  photonic integrated circuits (PICs) for the data-center, telecom and artificial intelligence (AI) markets — has  developed multi-engine 100G CWDM4 and 100G LR4 chip-on-board solutions for its  lead customer ADVA Optical Networking SE  of Munich, Germany. ADVA will use POET’s multi-engine transmit and receive  chips in an innovative pluggable solution that packs the functionality of four  independent 100Gbit/s interfaces into a single QSFP-DD housing. “ADVA’s MicroMux Quattro brings the industry’s smallest  aggregation technology all the way to the network core,” says Ross Saunders,  general manager of Optical Engines, ADVA. Engineered as a  standard-compliant plug-in a QSFP-DD form factor,  it fits into a 400Gbit/s socket, enabling it to meet legacy needs. “This  innovative pluggable solution packs the functionality of four independent  100Gbit/s interfaces or two independent 200Gbit/s interfaces into a single  QSFP-DD housing. POET’s unique design of its optical engines with hybrid integration of optical chips and  monolithically integrated MUX and DMUX enables us to deliver industry-leading  products in a small form factor that  is scalable to high-volume production as well as to higher data rates, such as 1.6Tbit/s and 3.2Tbit/s,  thereby enabling much higher bandwidth in a pluggable form factor,” he adds. “POET’s Optical Interposer  platform provides a high level of photonic integration to provide unique  solutions in miniature form factors,”  says POET’s president & general manager  Vivek Rajgarhia. “Our wafer-scale integration platform provides ADVA  with compelling solutions that are well aligned with their current and future  products.” POET’s multi-engine chips incorporate multiple instances of  industry-standard 100GBASE-CWDM4 (for 2km  applications) and 100GBASE-LR4 (for 10km  applications) transmit and receive functionalities on a single optical engine. The firm’s 100GBASE-LR4 optical engines are reckoned to be the industry’s  first implementation of chip-on-board solutions for the 100G LR4 market. The hybrid integration of  lasers and photodiodes, monolithic integration of optical MUX and DMUX and the  passive alignment of components on POET’s Optical Interposer  platform provides a unique solution to enable high-density network  connectivity. POET has demonstrated 10km operation of 100G LR4 optical engines  in its Shenzhen Lab and plans to  ship beta samples to ADVA in  first-quarter 2023, with production targeted in second-half 2023. According to LightCounting’s April 2022 report, the market  opportunity for 100G CWDM4 and LR4 pluggable transceivers will continue to  remain strong, at an average size of $700m annually from 2023 to 2027. 