TRUMPF expands portfolio of polarization-stable multi-mode VCSELs to improve illumination quality in 3D applications TRUMPF Photonic Components GmbH of  Ulm, Germany (part of the TRUMPF Group) – which makes vertical-cavity  surface-emitting lasers (VCSELs) and photodiodes for the consumer electronics,  datacoms, industrial sensing, heating and automotive markets – has  released a new multi-mode VCSEL with stable polarization to support the  increasing demand for advanced VCSEL sources. By integrating  additional functionalities such as linear polarization, VCSEL technology is  becoming smarter and illumination quality is increasing, notes the firm. “It’s  great to see the VCSEL technology evolving and to tap into new application  fields for VCSELs by integrating additional features,” says Ralph Gudde, VP marketing  & sales. “With the market release of our new multi-mode VCSEL with stable  polarization, we serve application demands with optimal illumination quality,  like in smartphones,” he adds. The new 940nm  multi-mode VCSEL with controllable polarization is entering mass production and  comes with high yield. The proprietary surface grating is  directly etched into the gallium arsenide (GaAs). With the two  emission zones, the new VCSEL generates optical power of 8mW. Applications in  consumer electronic  devices and smartphones benefit from this optimum efficiency in optical power,  as the VCSEL technology combines high laser efficiency and slope efficiency  of 1W/A with full polarization control. Measurements  confirm that the electro-optical properties of VCSELs with integrated grating  and stabilizing linear polarization are the same as VCSELs without grating.  “Thanks to the polarization feature, controlled laser light  improves the quality of the overall sensing system, enabling a positive user experience  and power savings,” says Gudde. The smartphone and  consumer electronics  industries are constantly looking for smarter components for their devices, all  while increasing illumination quality. VCSELs with polarization-controlled  light address these demanding 3D illumination  applications not only in smartphones but also in OLED screens or in virtual-reality  (VR) and  augmented-reality (AR) applications. The illumination quality is greatly  increased, as polarized light helps to eliminate optical losses. VCSELs with  stable polarization also avoid disturbing reflections and enable innovative  optical concepts like a collinear arrangement of transceiver and receiver  optics. This is supported by TRUMPF’s own designs and processes, which enable  high quality and perform without any losses. TRUMPF has also  announced its next products with polarization features, which will be released  later in 2023. One is a  multi-mode VCSEL with dual polarization that is now ready for customer sampling.  Here, one single VCSEL chip can individually address two  polarization directions, which significantly reduces the form factor  and the optical system complexity. This supports further  miniaturization demands in smartphone applications and consumer electronics. In  the actual concept, two VCSEL arrays at 0° and 90° linear polarization  are combined and interlaced on one VCSEL chip, using orthogonal surface gratings.  The two polarization directions are individually addressable, each yielding  about 1.35W of output power. Combined with polarization-selective optics, this  results in a reduction in the number of components, as only one VCSEL chip is  needed to create both flood illumination and dot patterns. “Dual-polarization  VCSELs will revolutionize the consumer electronics business,” believes  Gudde. “Device manufacturers will get one component that functions as a  dual-pattern projector,” he adds. The second release will be  a large polarization-controlled single emitter, single-mode VCSEL component with 2mW output power. This serves  industrial sensing applications like industrial optical encoders and  spectroscopy. Evaluation samples will be available from June onwards, and mass  production is scheduled for the end of 2023. 