Infineon signs new SiC material multi-year supply and cooperation deal with Resonac Infineon Technologies AG of Munich, Germany is extending its cooperation with silicon carbide (SiC) suppliers by signing a new  multi-year-supply and cooperation agreement with Tokyo-based  wafer manufacturer Resonac Corp  (formerly Showa Denko K.K. until its integration with Showa Denko Materials Co Ltd on 1 January), complementing and expanding the  announcement of 2021. The new set of contracts will deepen the long-term  partnership on SiC material. Resonac will supply Infineon with SiC materials  for the production of SiC semiconductors, covering a double-digit share of the  forecasted demand for the next decade. While the  initial phase focuses on 6”-wafer SiC material supply, Resonac will also  support Infineon’s transition to 8” wafer diameter during the later years of the  agreement. As part of the cooperation, Infineon will provide Resonac with  intellectual property relating to  SiC material technologies. The Infineon-Resonac partnership is intended to  contribute to supply chain  stability. ”Demand for  SiC is growing rapidly and we are preparing for this development with a  significant expansion of our manufacturing capacities,” says Infineon’s chief  procurement officer Angelique van der Burg.  “We are pleased to deepen our collaboration with Resonac and strengthen the  partnership between our two companies,” she adds. “The business  opportunities in the area of renewable energy  generation and storage, electro-mobility and infrastructure are enormous for  the years to come,” says Peter Wawer, president of Infineon’s Industrial Power Control division. “Infineon is doubling  down on its investments into SiC technology and product portfolio, to  proliferate the most comprehensive product offering to its customers… Our  partnership with Resonac will strongly support our market-leading position,” he  adds. “We are  pleased to team-up with Infineon as a global leader in power semiconductors in  order to meet the growing demand for SiC in the years to come. We will  continuously improve our best-in-class SiC material and develop the next  generation of 8” wafer technology.  We value Infineon as an excellent partner in this regard," says Jiro  Ishikawa, executive adviser for Resonac’s Device Solutions  business unit. Infineon is  expanding its SiC manufacturing capacity in order to reach a market share of  30% by the end of the decade. The firm’s SiC manufacturing capacity is about to  increase tenfold by 2027. A new plant in Kulim is scheduled to start production  in 2024. Infineon already provides SiC semiconductors to more than 3600  customers worldwide. 