Finwave joins American Semiconductor Innovation Coalition Finwave Semiconductor Inc of Waltham, MA,  USA has joined the American  Semiconductor Innovation Coalition (ASIC). ASIC recently expanded its  membership to include representatives from all stages of the chipmaking supply chain, and Finwave will be joining fellow  technology innovators to advance US semiconductor R&D. ASIC is a coalition of more than 160 organizations developing a  proposal to utilize CHIPS and Science Act funding – and serves as the main  technical driver of the National Semiconductor Technology Center (NSTC) and the  National Advanced Packaging Manufacturing Program (NAPMP). ASIC supports the  research, development, prototyping and manufacturing transfer goals of the NSTC  and NAPMP and ensures that they are met. Founded in  2012 by researchers at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) as Cambridge  Electronics before being rebranded last June as Finwave Semiconductor (with  offices in San Diego, CA and the Bay Area), the early-stage technology company  targets 5G communications with its 3DGaN technology, which features a 3D fin  gallium nitride transistor (GaN FinFET) structure. Finwave holds numerous  GaN FinFET technology patents. Currently, GaN semiconductors are almost exclusively manufactured  outside the USA. Together with ASIC, Finwave aims to stimulate IC manufacturing  in the USA. Finwave champions the building of new fabs, as well as the  expansion of existing fabs, to boost American semiconductor research,  development and production. Seeking to unlock the promise of 5G, Finwave says that its 3DGaN  FinFET technology combines best-in-class power amplification  efficiency with high-volume manufacturing to overcome the performance and cost  limitations that have together stymied widespread adoption of mmWave. The firm claims  that it significantly improves linearity, output power  and efficiency in 5G mmWave systems – while greatly reducing costs for carriers.  By leveraging high-volume 8”-wafer silicon CMOS fabs for producing 3DGaN chips,  Finwave’s devices benefit from both the cost model  and scalability of silicon technology. By joining ASIC’s growing membership of  companies, universities, startups and nonprofits, Finwave will have access to  high-volume fabs and the lithography requirements necessary to bring its technology  to volume production. “Finwave is pleased to join ASIC and its members in the pursuit of  strengthening US technology leadership and expanding domestic semiconductor  production,” says CEO Bin Lu.  “ASIC’s work to create technology hubs – and develop US supply chains and production for our future  economic prosperity and national security – aligns perfectly with our goal to  provide disruptive 3DGaN FinFET IC technology. Continued development of our  technology will help strengthen America’s technology supply chains and leadership, increase production  and grow jobs in the US,” he adds. “Finwave is a proven GaN innovator, and the company’s input and  expertise will be key to helping advance US semiconductor R&D leadership,” reckons  Douglas Grose, Ph.D., spokesperson for ASIC. “With roots in MIT and the  Northeast, Finwave is a shining example of U.S.-based innovation – and an ideal  member company to support us in our mission to move manufacturing in this  country forward.” 