Coherent launches 905nm triple-junction edge-emitting lasers for industrial LiDAR Materials, networking and laser technology firm  Coherent Corp has introduced its 905nm triple-junction edge-emitting  semiconductor lasers for light detection and ranging (LiDAR) in industrial  applications. Range-finding devices embedded in binoculars and  increasingly in autonomous robots that accomplish complex tasks, such as handling,  sorting, mapping and navigating, are accelerating the demand for LiDAR-based  depth sensing using components that perform efficiently and reliably, even  in the most extreme environments. The new 905nm lasers feature a  triple-junction design that enables them to efficiently emit up to 100W of  optical power in nanosecond pulses. The lasers are qualified to the stringent  JEDEC JESD22-A10x standard for industrial applications. “We will be able to achieve significant economies  of scale by migrating manufacturing of this new laser diode platform to  our existing 6-inch gallium arsenide platform,” says Dr Karlheinz  Gulden, senior VP, Laser Components & Subsystems business unit. “It is  the only technology platform of its kind to have pushed the frontiers of both  manufacturing scale and field reliability, underpinning semiconductor lasers  for high-volume consumer electronics and industrial devices, as well as for  optical communications equipment deployed undersea.” Built in a robust and hermetically sealed TO-56  package, the triple-junction lasers emit three times the optical power per  chip area compared with single-junction devices, resulting in powers of up  to 100W at 40A pulsed operation. They enable direct time-of-flight (ToF) LiDAR  systems in a wide variety of mission-critical robots exposed to challenging  environments. Applications include warehouse logistics, consumer appliances,  last-mile delivery, crop harvesting, land surveying, and safety monitoring. Coherent offers a broad portfolio of active and  passive products for LiDAR designs. Active devices include vertical-cavity  surface-emitting lasers (VCSELs), edge-emitters, laser bars,  frequency-modulated continuous wave (FMCW) sources, and pulsed fiber-based  sources. Passive devices includes laser optics, polygons, galvo mirrors,  lenses, ultra-narrowband filters, wide-incidence-angle mirrors, gratings, and  thermoelectrics. Coherent is showcase its solutions for life  sciences, precision manufacturing, and sensing at BiOS and Photonics West  in San Francisco (28 January to 2 February). 