POET announces production release of optical engines for 100G, 200G and 400G for telecom and data-center markets POET Technologies Inc of Toronto,  Ontario, Canada — a designer and developer of the POET Optical Interposer and photonic integrated circuits (PICs) for the data-center, telecom  and artificial intelligence markets — has  advanced its commercialization goals by releasing to production four optical engines.  The small-form-factor optical engines  with integrated directly modulated lasers (DMLs), optical multiplexer,  high-speed photodiodes and optical demultiplexer enable low-power,  cost-efficient and highly scalable 100G CWDM4, 200G FR4 and 400G FR4 pluggable  transceivers for telecom and data-center markets. POET reached its production release milestones while working with  Super Photonics, the joint venture company formed with Sanan IC  of Xiamen, China. POET and Super Photonics have jointly completed design verification  testing and reliability testing of the optical engines per relevant  industry standards. The next step in the commercialization process is for  POET’s customers to qualify the products internally with their clients.  Purchase orders are expected to follow. “We have worked closely with our customers to engineer the optical engines  to their requirements. So far, everyone involved in the process is very  satisfied with the results. The release of POET’s optical engines to production  sets the stage for high-volume deployment and widespread acceptance of our  technology,” said Vivek Rajgarhia, president & general manager of  POET. “Our customers can realize the immense value of POET’s Optical Interposer  platform when they move to high-volume production and achieve a cost-effective  solution with simplified transceiver design, fewer active alignments, and  reduced OpEx and CapEx spending.” The 100G CWDM4 transmit optical engine consists of four  high-speed DMLs, monitor photodiodes and an optical multiplexer. The receive  optical engines for 100G CWDM4, 200G FR4 and 400G FR4 have four high-speed  photodiodes and an optical demultiplexer integrated in a compact form factor.  Customers have the option to procure the engines with an integrated fiber array  unit (FAU), which provides an even more complete solution for next-generation  data-center interconnects. Super Photonics has received an order from a customer for  transceiver prototype builds for end-customer qualification. POET and Super Photonics  are actively working with at least four other customers to complete  transceiver-level design and qualification of the optical engines and  expect to ramp to high volume in second-half 2023. POET expects to release  more products to production in first-half 2023. 