III-V Lab chooses Riber MBE 412 to expand opto and microelectronic manufacturing platform Under France’s economic stimulus  package ‘Plan France Relance’ (administered by the nation’s Ministry of the  Economy and Finance), III-V Lab  of Palaiseau, France (the joint Alcatel-Lucent,  Thales and CEA-Leti industrial research laboratory) is being supported  by the Government to adapt and modernize its R&D and production tool. III-V Lab has hence chosen to rely on epitaxy  equipment from Riber S.A. of Bezons, France  – which manufactures molecular beam epitaxy (MBE) systems as well as  evaporation sources – whose set up realized during first-half 2023 will  expand III-V Lab’s optoelectronic  and microelectronic semiconductors manufacturing platform. “InPERIUM (InP for optoelectronic with Molecular Beam Epitaxy) is a project implemented in the framework of the French recovery plan  that allows us to increase our  manufacturing capacity of wafers, components and optoelectronic and microelectronic modules for our strategic sectors,”  says III-V Lab’s president Jean-Pierre Hamaide. “The MBE 412 convinced us thanks to its  reliability and its great modularity,” comments Olivier Delorme, researcher in  epitaxy at III-V Lab. ‘’Thanks to our understanding of physics of materials, combined  with the versatility of the epitaxy reactor, we explore many combinations of  III-V semiconductors in order to develop high-performance components.” Operating under ultra-vacuum, the cluster robot automatically  transports wafers between different modules connected to the eight available  ports of the system. In particular, a preparation module, equipped with a  hydrogen plasma source, has been installed, improving the performance of  components by providing optimum surface morphology. Finally, the in-situ characterization instrument EZ-CURVE from Riber will be integrated and adapted  for precise and continuous control of the growth process, contributing to  better control of the epitaxy processes, allowing improvement in the electronic  or photonic performance and ultimately increasing component manufacturing  efficiency. “Our MBE system cluster allows both  product development and production,” notes Riber’s chairman Michel Picault. “Our deposition  reactor easily integrates various control instruments needed for the  development of new materials. The modularity of the cluster design offers the  opportunity to add additional reactors for pre/post process and analysis steps,  or multiplying reactors to optimize product development and/or increase  production efficiency,” he adds. “Our platform is fully automated and is driven  by our software Crystal XE.” 