Cornell to lead SRC-sponsored SUPREME research center Cornell University in the USA is leading a new $34m research center  that will accelerate the creation of energy-efficient semiconductor materials  and technologies, and develop new approaches for microelectronics systems.
The SUPeRior Energy-efficient Materials and dEvices (SUPREME)  Center will bring together researchers from 14 higher-education institutions,  in collaboration with the center’s sponsor Semiconductor Research Corporation  (SRC). SUPREME is one of seven centers funded by SRC’s JUMP 2.0 consortium. It will be funded by SRC and its 14 partner  universities; Cornell’s investment in the five-year project will be $7m. Partners  include: Cornell; Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT); Boise State  University; Georgia Institute of Technology; North Carolina State  University; Northwestern University; Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute;  Rochester Institute of Technology; Stanford University; Yale University; the  University of Colorado, Boulder; the University of Texas, Austin; the  University of California, Santa Barbara (UCSB); and the University of  Notre Dame. Huili Grace Xing, the William L. Quackenbush  Professor of Engineering in materials science and engineering, and in  electrical and computer engineering, at Cornell Engineering, will serve as the  center’s director. Tomás Palacios, director of Microsystems Technology  Laboratories and a professor in electrical engineering and computer science at  MIT, will serve as the center’s associate director. The center’s managing  director will be Thomas Dienel, a condensed matter physicist who has been  running the user program at Cornell’s Platform  for the Accelerated Realization, Analysis and Discovery of Interface Materials  (PARADIM). “Our center will focus on the material science, the new device  architectures and how they interplay with each other,” says Xing, whose own  research has included materials that support unipolar or bipolar transport,  such as 2D materials, ultrawide-bandgap semiconductors, and devices with  record performance that reveal fundamental limits. “We’re not engineering a particular approach. We’re actually going  down to the material genome level,” says Xing. “If we go down to the building  blocks and make a connection, then we can serve a very broad application space  in logic, memory, computing, sensing and communication with the desired energy efficiency.” Researchers at the center will explore both fundamental new  science and novel engineering technologies, with the aim of driving the  semiconductor industry in the next 3-15 years, while also training the  next generation of scientists and engineers to work across disciplines. The center’s four primary goals are to: “We’ve known for some time that Cornell Engineering faculty are  pursuing research at the forefront of semiconductor materials science and  engineering,” says Lynden Archer,  the Joseph Silbert Dean of Engineering. “With this new multi-institutional  research center, we look to the future and to providing leadership that  translates to national impact in multiple areas, including autonomous systems  and robotics, energy systems, medicine, and space exploration – all  fields which require advances in semiconductor materials and new device architectures  that consume less energy.” SUPREME is organized around four interdisciplinary sub-themes:  digital and analog; memory and applications; interconnects and metrology; and  materials discovery and processing. The first aims to harness the unique properties of two-dimensional  materials, wide- and ultrawide-bandgap semiconductors, advanced ferroelectrics,  spin and molecular materials to develop a new generation of digital and analog  devices. The second sub-theme will present new approaches for embedded and  neuromorphic memory and storage technologies – such as ferroelectric,  spintronic and electrochemical devices – that will support the computational  workloads of the future. The third sub-theme will focus on new physics of electron  transport and new materials – such as anisotropic conductors and topological  semimetals – to engineer better interconnects from devices to devices, and dies  to dies. It will also develop advanced metrology to characterize new materials  and accelerate material discovery by high-throughput experimentation. The fourth sub-theme will develop the new materials and processing  technologies required by the first three device-focused thrusts, with an  emphasis on several broad classes of materials: 2D and wide-bandgap materials  for logic and analog computing; metal-oxide-semiconductors for low-power  complementary architecture; ferroelectrics and electrochemical materials for  new memory/computing architectures, and strongly nonlinear optical materials  for interconnects. There are seven Cornell faculty among the center’s 25 principal  investigators (PIs), including: Xing; Debdeep Jena, the David E. Burr Professor  of Engineering in the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering and in the  Department of Materials Science and Engineering; James Hwang,  M.S. ’76, Ph.D. ’78, a research professor of materials science and  engineering; Dan Ralph Ph.D. ’93, the F.R. Newman  Professor of Physics in the College of Arts and Sciences; Farhan Rana, the Joseph P. Ripley Professor of Engineering in  electrical and computer engineering; Judy Cha Ph.D. ’09, professor of  materials science and engineering; and Darrell  Schlom, the Herbert Fisk Johnson Professor of Industrial  Chemistry in materials science and engineering. The PIs will also work in close collaboration with industry  leaders to maximize the impact and relevance of their work, which should not  only lead to more energy-efficiency technologies but also ultimately boost  equality, according to Xing. “We want technology that can use as little energy as possible but  provide as much function as possible. That is essential if we want to propagate  equality,” Xing says. “If we’re able to lower the energy consumption for all of  those essential means we want to have in modern life, we can lower the barrier  for everybody to have access to information, to have access for education, and  to have access to opportunities.” 