Aehr receives follow-on production order from second major SiC customer Semiconductor production test and reliability  qualification equipment supplier Aehr Test Systems of Fremont, CA, USA  has received a follow-on production order from its second major silicon carbide  (SiC) customer for an additional production FOX-XP multi-wafer test &  burn-in system configured with Aehr’s fully integrated and automated WaferPak  Aligner (to ship in Aehr’s fiscal fourth-quarter 2023, beginning 1 March). The FOX-XP system is configured with Bipolar Voltage Channel Module  (BVCM) and Very High Voltage Channel Module (VHVCM) options that  enable new advanced test and burn-in capabilities for silicon carbide  power semiconductors using Aehr’s proprietary WaferPak full-wafer  contactors. This customer serves several significant markets including the  electric vehicle (EV) industry as well as other industrial applications. “They have told us, and we believe they will order, a significant  number of FOX-XP systems for volume production of their silicon carbide  devices at facilities around the world to meet the exploding forecasted market  demand for silicon carbide devices for electric vehicles and other  industrial markets,” says president & CEO Gayn Erickson. “In addition to the cost-effectiveness and scalability of our  system, this customer has told us how important automation is to them across  their wafer fabrication and assembly and test, and that our fully integrated  FOX-XP with automated WaferPak alignment and handling is key to meeting their  high-volume production needs that are critical to their scalability, as well as  the quality and reliability goals of the customers and markets they serve… This  customer will be our lead customer for high volume using our new  fully automated WaferPak Aligner integrated with the new FOX-XP wafer-level  test and burn-in system,” he adds. “The FOX-XP with integrated WaferPak Aligner uses our proprietary  WaferPak full-wafer contactors and supports 100mm, 150mm, 200mm and 300mm wafer sizes  using industry-standard wafer cassettes and FOUPs (Front Opening Unified Pods).  This allows customers to easily support multiple wafer sizes, which is  critical to the silicon carbide market where a high mix of wafer sizes  is expected in high-volume production over the next several years. This new  configuration allows our customers to move and align the wafers automatically  into our proprietary WaferPaks and place the WaferPaks into and out of our  multi-wafer FOX-XP systems that test and burn-in up to 18 wafers at a time,” Erickson  continues. “The FOX-XP configured with the integrated and automated WaferPak  Aligner has a number of additional very valuable features for automation of the  test floor. These include unattended changeovers from one product to the next,  and the ability to run multiple different product type wafers in parallel.  In addition, 100% tracking and traceability of wafers and logging individual  die test results has become key to companies serving mission-critical  applications and markets such as the electric vehicle engine inverters and  their on-board and off-board chargers that are driving the explosive demand for  silicon carbide devices.” “Forecasts from William Blair estimate that the silicon carbide  market for devices in electric vehicles alone, such as traction inverters  and on-board chargers, is expected to grow from 119,000 6-inch-equivalent SiC  wafers for electric vehicles in 2021 to more than 4.1 million 6-inch  equivalent wafers in 2030, representing a compound annual growth rate  (CAGR) of 48.4%. Total 6-inch-equivalent SiC wafers for all current addressable  markets are expected to grow to nearly seven million 6-inch-equivalent SiC  wafers in 2030,” Erickson says. “The FOX family of compatible systems including the FOX-NP and  FOX-XP multi-wafer test and burn-in systems and Aehr’s proprietary WaferPak  full-wafer contactors provide a uniquely cost-effective solution for burning in  multiple wafers of devices at a single time to remove early-life failures of  silicon carbide devices, which is critical to meeting the initial quality  and long-term reliability the automotive, industrial and electrification  infrastructure industry needs,” adds Erickson. “The FOX-XP system can be  configured with up to nine or 18 wafers, depending on the customer’s specific  test requirements and power configuration and is fully compatible with  Aehr’s FOX-NP system, which is a two-wafer system that is a great fit for new  production introduction and qualification.” Available with multiple WaferPak Contactors (full-wafer test)  or multiple DiePak Carriers (singulated die/module test) configurations, the  FOX-XP and FOX-NP systems are capable of functional test and burn-in/cycling of  devices such as silicon carbide and gallium nitride power semiconductors,  silicon photonics as well as other optical devices, 2D and 3D sensors,  flash memories, magnetic sensors, microcontrollers, and other leading-edge ICs  in either wafer form factor, before they are assembled into single or  multi-die stacked packages, or in singulated die or module form factor. 