MICLEDI demos red AlInGaP micro-LEDs at CES, completing portfolio of RGB micro-LEDs MICLEDI Microdisplays B.V.  of Leuven, Belgium – a fabless developer of micro-LED display modules for  augmented reality (AR) glasses that  was spun off from nanoelectronics research center IMEC in 2019 – has  produced its first demonstration units of red µLEDs on aluminium indium gallium phosphide  (AlInGaP) starting material. The newest addition to its portfolio of R, G and B  µLEDs follows the firm’s strategy of optimized display module performance and  is manufactured in a CMOS-compatible flow, free of arsenide. Demonstration  units of both red gallium nitride (GaN) and red AlInGaP are being shown in  booth #54946 in the Venetian Expo at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES 2023)  in Las Vegas. MICLEDI’s strategy is to enable true consumer AR glasses by making  the best individual color-performing µLEDs which, when coupled with the firm’s  proprietary micro-lenses, can be integrated into the highest-performing  full-color 3-panel µLED display module. Different applications (true consumer,  industrial, automotive, and others) require different optimal performance  parameters. “There is no one-size-fits-all solution for AR glasses,” notes CEO  Sean Lord. “This achievement, with our previously announced blue, green and red  GaN µLEDs, opens the door to a broader offering of display module performance  parameters which enables MICLEDI to serve customers developing AR glasses from  medium to high resolution and medium to high brightness,” he adds.  Picture:   MICLEDI’s new red AlInGaP is Ferrari-red,  free of arsenide, CMOS compatible, and designed with a new structure compared  with standard GaN micro-LEDs. 

  “Using advanced photolithography available in world-class 300mm  wafer fabs assures that µLEDs made by MICLEDI will achieve lowest defectivity,  highest process control and repeatability, and capitalizes on the symbiosis  in manufacturing that comes from building our µLEDs in the same fabs and fab  processes that advanced ASICs for µLED control and driving are made,” says co-founder  & chief technology officer Dr Soeren Steudel. “Through  partnerships with world-leading developers of starting materials and our  healthy collaboration with IMEC and other fab partners, we will demonstrate at  CES µLEDs with excellent color performance across the full range of drive  currents for many different types of AR glasses appliances in blue, green  and two optimized versions of red.” MICLEDI’s first red on GaN is solidly in the red range with  wavelength centered at 620nm and good full-width half-maximum (FWHM) of  <50nm. This newest announcement of red on AlInGaP achieves 653nm wavelength  at extremely narrow FWHM of <9nm. MICLEDI’s newest addition to its portfolio  of colors is Ferrari-red, free of arsenide, CMOS compatible, and designed  with a new structure compared with standard GaN micro-LEDs. MICLEDI says that its 3-panel approach to µLED full-color displays  is uniquely positioned to achieve the highest performance standards in AR  glasses. AR glasses for indoor or semi-darkened light settings can be  less efficient, less bright, and deliver less overall performance compared with  outdoor sunlight settings. Best-in-class AR glasses with transparent lenses,  for use all the way from low indoor light to bright outdoor sunlight, is a  must before high-volume consumer adoption of AR glasses will commence, says the  firm. By optimizing the chemistry and physics of each individual color, MICLEDI  says that it enables the highest brightness of any of the alternative solutions  in the market currently. 