Room-temperature continuous-wave UV-C laser diode Asahi Kasei Corporation and Nagoya  University in Japan report on continuous wave (CW) lasing at room temperature in  a 274nm-wavelength aluminium gallium nitride (AlGaN) [Ziyi Zhang  et al, Appl. Phys. Lett., v121, p222103, 2022]. The  lasing wavelength is in the ultraviolet C (UV-C) 100–280nm wavelength range,  with photon energies of 12.4–4.43eV. The 274nm  wavelength corresponds to 4.53eV. The researchers report: “Although UV-C  laser diodes have been demonstrated in prior work, CW lasing was not possible  without cooling.” Hoped-for deployments of such  devices include instrumentation, laser machining, and disinfection. Such  applications require substantially increased efficiency and lifetime before  commercialization would be possible.  Figure 1: Schematic fabricated UV-C  laser diode structure and cross-sectional  scanning electron microscope (SEM) image of sloped mesa edge. The material for the laser diode (Figure 1) was grown pseudomorphically on a 2-inch (0001)  Al-polar AlN substrate (Figure 2), using  metal-organic chemical vapor deposition  (MOCVD). The waveguide layer included two 4.5nm quantum wells as an active photon-emitting layer. While the n-type used a  traditonal silicon-doping strategy to tip the equilibrium to conduction by  electron carriers, the bulk of the p-type doping was achieved through  distributed polarization doping (DPD), which uses the varying charge  polarization of AlGaN with different Al-contents to create hole conduction.  Only the GaN cap layer was doped with  magnesium (Mg) impurities to achieve p-type conduction. The use of DPD avoids  the decreasing effectiveness of Mg as a p-type dopant in high- Al-content  AlGaN. X-ray analysis confirmed the pseudomorphic nature of the AlGaN, showing  the layers to be fully strained to match the AlN substrate lattice.  Figure 2: Material details. The material was fabricated into 600μm-long devices. The sides of  the laser diode mesa was bevelled at a 15° angle with the width of the  top p-electrode of 5μm.  The researchers explain the purpose of the bevel: “This angle was sufficiently  shallow to effectively suppress dislocation formation that can result from the  concentrated shear stress generated at  the mesa edge.” This allowed the p- and 2xn-electrodes to be placed nearer to  the mesa edge than previously, shortening the current flow  path through the n-cladding and thus reducing series resistance. The cleaved  end facets were coated to provide more  than 90% reflectivity. 