Micross acquires RF and microwave product maker KCB Solutions Micross Components Inc of Orlando, FL, USA  (a global provider of bare die and mission-critical microelectronic  components and services for high-reliability aerospace & defense, space,  medical, energy and industrial applications) has acquired KCB Solutions  of Shirley, MA, USA, which manufactures RF and microwave surface-mount  microcircuits and hybrids. The acquisition further expands the proprietary  Hi-Rel component product portfolio of Micross. As a privately held company and portfolio investment of Artemis  Capital Partners of Boston, MA, KCB Solutions  has established itself as a supplier of leaded and leadless GaN/GaAs (gallium nitride/gallium arsenide) RF and microwave switches, attenuators,  amplifiers, multi-chip and functional modules in both standard and custom form.  KCB manufactures products for applications in the space, aerospace and  strategic defense end-markets, and its design team has extensive experience  serving the requirements of prime customers and system-level contractors.  Products are designed to meet MIL-PRF standards, and KCB’s US-based operating facility  maintains AS9100 quality certification. “Their ‘one source–one solution’ end-to-end product and services  model makes Micross a valued partner to us and our customers, who expect  high-quality RF and microwave solutions,” says KCB Solutions’  president & CEO Ralph Nilsson. “This is a winning combination of product  innovation and the highest level of supply chain  services for our hi-rel customers,” he adds. “We are very proud to have partnered with Ralph and the KCB team  to grow the business over the past several years,” says Artemis managing partner and KCB board member Peter A. Hunter. “As part of  Micross, KCB is well positioned for continued growth,” he adds. “The acquisition of KCB Solutions will greatly expand Micross’  proprietary portfolio of high-reliability RF and microwave products, which will  enhance overall product performance and reduce supply chain risk for the benefit of our customers,” says Micross’  chairman & CEO Vincent Buffa. “In addition, Micross will leverage the  capabilities of its design, packaging and test services to provide our RF and  microwave customers with greater value from our ‘one source–one solution’  business model that will provide them with the most advanced microelectronic  solutions available.” 