Lumentum names Caroline Pan as senior VP& chief marketing officer Lumentum Holdings Inc of San Jose, CA, USA (which designs and  makes optical and photonic products for optical networks and lasers for  industrial and consumer markets) has appointed Caroline Pan as senior VP  & chief marketing officer,  reporting to president & CEO Alan Lowe. Pan will be responsible for leading  strategic marketing, corporate marketing and communications, and Lumentum Ventures, a company-wide initiative to  drive market expansion through breakthrough innovation. “Given  expanding opportunities outside of Lumentum’s core customers and end-markets,  Caroline’s diverse portfolio of global experience, deep domain knowledge across  industry sectors, and proven track record  of delivering high-impact business results make her an important and timely  addition to our executive leadership team,” comments Lowe. “I could not  be more pleased to have the opportunity to join Lumentum as their chief  marketing officer at this particular  inflection point in the company’s evolution,” says Pan. “I am looking forward  to working closely with Alan and the rest of the organization to unlock and  unleash our internal innovation efforts and reposition the company for  unprecedented growth ahead.” Pan has nearly  30 years of experience across the high-tech, industrial and automotive sectors.  Before joining Lumentum, she was the chief marketing officer for Bright Machines, a venture-backed software and  robotics company that provides intelligent automation solutions for discrete  manufacturing. Prior to  Bright Machines, Pan was a vice president  at Honeywell International, where she last led strategy, innovation and  ventures for its $7bn Safety & Productivity Solutions  business. She also established Honeywell’s first corporate marketing function and led strategy &  marketing for their Global High Growth  Regions organization. Pan also  served as global VP of emerging markets for Hewlett-Packard’s PC and Printing  division, and spent 11 years with  Intel Corp, where she held  leadership roles in their core product groups and corporate functions. She  began her career as a design engineer and product line  manager at Ford Motor Company. Pan holds a  Bachelor of Science degree in Mechanical Engineering from the Massachusetts  Institute of Technology and an MBA from Harvard Business School. 