Arizona State University developing transistors made of diamond and boron nitride Power transistors to regulate the flow of electrical power  have traditionally been made with silicon, while more advanced transistors are  made of silicon carbide (SiC) or gallium nitride (GaN). But Trevor  Thornton, a professor of electrical engineering in Arizona State University’s School  of Electrical, Computer and Energy Engineering (part of the Ira A. Fulton  Schools of Engineering), is leading a team researching the use of two new  transistor materials: diamond and boron nitride (BN). Thornton’s team is conducting its research through ASU’s Advanced Materials,  Processes, and Energy Devices Science and Technology Center (AMPED STC).  AMPED’s goal is to develop materials and technologies with industry partners to  support the mission of Arizona’s New Economy Initiative, which aims to  improve Arizona’s competitiveness in developing advanced technology. AMPED  specifically looks to develop technologies and materials used in the  construction of batteries, solar electricity generation and power electronics. The research team includes Thornton and other ASU faculty members  including Terry Alford, a professor of materials science and engineering,  Stephen Goodnick, a professor of electrical engineering, and Robert Nemanich, a  Regents Professor of physics, as well as doctoral students in electrical  engineering and materials science and engineering. They are working with  Northrop Grumman Mission Systems as the industry partner for the project. Diamond efficiency shines 
  Thornton says that diamond is under investigation as a material  for transistors because of its high thermal conductivity compared with existing  materials, e.g. 8–10 times greater than gallium nitride.  Harnessing diamond’s full potential could shrink the size of transistors by  90%, it is reckoned. Diamond also has a high breakdown field — i.e. it can handle a  high voltage relative to most materials before failure — suitable for  applications that handle large amounts of power.  Picture:   Artificial diamond being  grown in a lab at Arizona State University. Photo courtesy Franz Koeck/ASU. While diamond is the team’s chosen material for the main body of a  transistor, they are investigating the use of boron nitride for the  transistors’ electrical contacts. Like diamond, boron nitride has a high breakdown field  and high thermal conductivity. Goodnick’s role is concerned primarily with  computer modeling and simulation of the use of boron nitride transistors. The team expects that, by combining their knowledge of how diamond  and boron nitride work as transistor materials, they can create  transistors made from both materials. The hope is that the materials complement  each other and work even better together than individually. “Ultra-wide-bandgap semiconductor materials like diamond and boron nitride  are expected to lead to more efficient energy conversion using less power  with much smaller components,” Goodnick says. “This improves the future energy grid,  which is essential for the ongoing transition toward renewable energy and  electrification of the transportation sector.” This research has applications that would be especially useful to  communications technologies, says the team Many satellites run on solar power,  which requires transistors to turn the electricity into a form usable by the  satellite. “You can’t launch a power substation into space,” Thornton says.  “Any improvement on size and weight in a satellite has a huge impact.” Another communications technology the transistors could improve is  the cell-phone tower. Transistors convert power to the form needed to produce  radio frequency waves that cell phones use. One of the biggest challenges faced when designing and operating  cell-phone towers is keeping them cool, notes Thornton. This is especially the  case in a hot environment like Phoenix. The power transistors in older cell-phone towers are typically  made from silicon, while those in newer 5G systems will use gallium nitride.  Thanks to its improved heat dissipation, Thornton’s team expects transistors  made from diamond and boron nitride to greatly reduce the cooling power  needed for cell towers, making it far easier to prevent them from overheating. Shrinking substations
  While the project with Northrop Grumman Mission Systems focuses  on communications technology, transistors made from diamond and boron nitride  also have applications in power conversion for electrical systems and for  the electricity grid. These more efficient materials could reduce the size  requirements for electricity grid substations, which typically occupy an  area of land the size of a building. Nemanich, a faculty member in the ASU Department of Physics, leads  the ‘Ultra Materials for a Resilient, Smart  Electricity Grid’ (ULTRA) Energy Frontier Research Center  (EFRC) conducting research on power electronics. He also leads a lab for  growing artificial diamond materials, which will be used by Thornton’s team in  their research. “We have been growing diamond for electronic devices for the last  10 years,” Nemanich says. “Our diamond deposition lab has unique  capabilities for the development of electronic materials and devices,” he believes. In addition to Thornton’s electrical engineering expertise and  Nemanich’s work with diamond as an electronic material, Alford, a faculty  member in the School for Engineering of Matter, Transport and Energy (part of the Fulton Schools), provides his  expertise on materials science. Alford is working on materials characterization, analyzing the  properties of the materials that the team is investigating. He also leads a  part of the research looking into the use of new types of metallic electrical  contacts connected to diamond as a substrate, and he co-advises a materials  science and engineering doctoral student involved in the research with  Thornton. Working with Thornton’s team at the AMPED STC has given Alford the  chance to conduct research that differs from his normal topics. He believes  that his perspective as a materials scientist can help the team to achieve its  goals. “We bring to the table a desire to understand the impact of a material’s  defects,” Alford says. “We want to be able to understand those defects and how  they impact a device’s performance.” The transistor research project is funded for two years through  the AMPED STC partnership with Northrop Grumman Mission Systems. However,  to fully realize the transistors’ potential for widespread applications,  Thornton says it could take longer. “We’ll have breakthroughs, but I don’t see it being widely adopted  in the way we’re talking about for five to 10 years,” he says. “It’s that  kind of medium- to long-term research of which some applications will happen  quicker, while others will be 10 years for widespread consumer  applications.” 