Wolfspeed made Official Power Semiconductor Partner of Jaguar TCS Racing Formula E team Jaguar TCS Racing has revealed the Jaguar  I-TYPE 6, designed and engineered to compete for the 2023 ABB FIA Formula E  World Championship, as the all-electric motorsport category moves into a  new Gen3 era on 14 January in Mexico City for the first of Season 9’s  17 races in 12 cities. It is the first FIA Formula E race  car to feature both front and rear powertrains, as 250kW regen is added to the  front and 350kW regen added at the rear, doubling the regenerative capability  over the Gen2 model and removing the need for conventional rear brakes. The  third generation of Jaguar’s Formula E race car is 74kg lighter and 100kW  more powerful than the prior generations, and can now reach a maximum speed of  200mph. The next generation of Formula E will  continue to be a real-world test bed for Jaguar TCS Racing and  car-maker Jaguar Land Rover (which  aims to be an all-electric brand by 2025, and to achieve carbon net zero  across its supply chain, products and operations by 2039). As the team  develops new technology, it will power race-to-road learning for electric  powertrain, sustainability and software technologies. Ahead of the 2023 championship, Wolfspeed Inc  of Durham, NC, USA – which makes silicon carbide materials as well as silicon carbide (SiC) and gallium nitride  (GaN) power-switching & RF semiconductor devices – has been  confirmed as Official Power Semiconductor Partner. The partnership builds  on Wolfspeed’s existing relationship with the team since 2017, where its SiC  technology has been used to accelerate on-track efficiency and performance. “Their  expertise in silicon carbide technology will play a pivotal role in our  powertrain performance,” comments Jaguar TCS Racing’s team principal James Barclay. Jaguar Land Rover also recently  announced a strategic partnership with Wolfspeed, securing supply of SiC  devices for the next generation of electric vehicle inverters. Both  partnerships will support the technology and knowledge transfer from  race-to-road, with a particular focus on efficiency. “Our  silicon carbide semiconductor technology in the Jaguar I-TYPE 6 creates  an ‘Innovation Lab on Wheels’ to engineer improved powertrain efficiency  in a high-performance electric vehicle,” says Jay  Cameron, Wolfspeed senior VP & general manager, Power business. “Our collaboration with Jaguar TCS Racing in the ABB FIA Formula E World Championship will  support our shared goal of translating innovation from the race to the road.” 