POET to amend terms of share purchase warrants POET Technologies Inc of Toronto, Ontario,  Canada — a designer and developer of the POET Optical Interposer and  photonic integrated circuits (PICs) for the data-center, telecom and artificial intelligence  (AI) markets — intends to amend the terms  of 1,764,720 common share purchase  warrants that were issued pursuant to a private placement that closed on 11 February 2021. After giving effect to the  consolidation, the warrants currently have an exercise price of C$11.50 per  common share and will expire on 11 February 2023. The purpose of the proposed amendments is to (i) reduce the  exercise price of the warrants from C$11.50 to C$4.25 per common share, (ii) extend their expiry date from  11 February to 11 May 2023, and (iii) amend the  acceleration clause to comply with the requirements of the TSX Venture  Exchange. Following the closing of the private placement in 2021, the  corporation completed a consolidation of its issued and outstanding common shares on the basis of 1  post-consolidation common share for every 10 pre-consolidation common shares.  Accordingly, the number of outstanding warrants was consolidated on the basis  of 1 post-consolidation warrant for every 10 pre-consolidation warrants and, in  accordance with the terms of the warrant indenture, the exercise price of the  warrants was adjusted such that each post-consolidation warrant entitles the holder  to purchase one common share at a  price of C$11.50 per common share  during the unexpired term of the warrants. In accordance with the terms of the warrant indenture under which  the warrants were issued, the amendments must be approved by the holders of not  less than 66 2/3 percent of the outstanding warrants. Therefore, in order to  give effect to the amendments, the corporation will be promptly seeking the  written consent of the holders of warrants to such amendments. Upon the amendments becoming effective, each warrant will be  exercisable until 5pm (Toronto time) on 11 May  2023 at an exercise price of C$4.25 per common share.  In addition, the warrants will be subject to an amended clause whereby, if for  any 10 consecutive trading days during the unexpired term of the warrants, the  closing price of the common shares  on the exchange is equal to or greater than C$4.89, the expiry date will be  accelerated to 30 calendar days. The corporation will announce any such  accelerated expiry date of the warrants by news release. All other terms and  conditions of the warrants remain the same. The amended warrant terms remain  subject to the final acceptance of the Exchange. 