Fraunhofer ISE advancing perovskite–silicon tandem cell and module technology to industrial maturity Compared with a pure silicon solar cell, stacking a solar cell made of  perovskite material on top of a conventional silicon solar cell enables more  effective use of the solar spectrum. Scientists around the world are presently  researching these perovskite–silicon solar cells, focusing  on stability, durability and industrial manufacturing processes. Between 2020 and 2022, researchers at the Fraunhofer Institute for Solar Energy Systems  ISE in  Freiburg, Germany, together with industry partners, developed technologies for the  production of perovskite–silicon  full-format photovoltaic (PV) modules in the joint project SWiTch. At  the cell level, the research teams in the Fraunhofer lighthouse project MaNiTU  and in the project PrEs-to, funded by the German Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs  and Climate Action (BMWK), succeeded in scaling up perovskite–silicon tandem solar cells from laboratory cell size to wafer size. Within the  framework of a recent collaboration agreement with Meyer Burger,  Fraunhofer ISE will further  intensify its activities in tandem solar cells and modules. Perovskite–silicon  tandem solar cells represent a  further development of the conventional silicon wafer-based  solar cell technology. Here a  perovskite solar cell with a wider  bandgap is stacked on top of the silicon solar cell  to make better use of sunlight. “Efficiencies of over 35% are possible with  these tandem solar cells,” says  professor Andreas Bett, institute director at Fraunhofer ISE. “Laboratory-scale perovskite–silicon  tandem solar cells have already  overcome the silicon cell’s theoretical upper efficiency limit of 29.4%,  showing promise for even more efficient solar cells  in the future.” On a laboratory  scale, the best published efficiency of a perovskite–silicon  solar cell is currently 31.3%.  However, these laboratory solar cells  have a small cell area of about 1cm2, and most of the manufacturing  processes used in the laboratory to date cannot be used for industrial  production. “We are therefore very pleased that we have succeeded in achieving  a certified efficiency of 22.5% for a perovskite–silicon solar cell with an area of more than 100 square centimeters  and with industrial screen-printing metallization,” says Dr Patricia Schulze, solar cell scientist working in the MaNiTU  project at Fraunhofer ISE. “Our aim  is now to realize the high efficiencies of our small laboratory cells on  large-area cells using scalable fabrication methods,” she adds. In particular,  the Fraunhofer researchers are working on a hybrid deposition process based on  two established manufacturing processes to produce perovskite solar cells on double-sided textured silicon  solar cells. In the joint  project SwiTch, Fraunhofer ISE — together with the project  partners — developed interconnection and  encapsulation solutions for tandem solar cells.  “The interconnection and lamination processes had to be understood and adapted  in such a way that the perovskite–silicon solar cells  can be integrated into the module without damage, at low cost and with  long-term stability,” says Dr Holger  Neuhaus, department head of Photo-voltaic Modules at Fraunhofer ISE. First module prototypes with an  output of 430W peak have already  been produced. The development was accompanied by a detailed analysis of  cell-to-module losses and work on the long-term stability of the tandem PV  modules. As part of the joint project SALTO, Fraunhofer ISE was able to establish Meyer Burger’s patented SmartWire interconnection technology (SWTC)  for full-format modules at Fraunhofer ISE.  This low-temperature technology is suitable for interconnecting silicon–perovskite  solar cells, in contrast to  conventional soldering processes. 