GaN device market grows at 12.13% CAGR from $6.24bn in 2021 to $7bn in 2022 According to a report from the Business Research Company, the  global gallium nitride (GaN) device market is estimated to have risen at a  compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 12.13% from $6.24bn in  2021 to $7bn in 2022. This is despite the Russia–Ukraine war disrupting the chances of global  economic recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic, at least in the short term, since  it has led to economic sanctions on multiple countries, a surge in commodity  prices, and supply chain disruptions, affecting many markets  across the globe. Longer term, the GaN device market is expected to grow at a  CAGR of 15.38% to $12.41bn in 2026. The GaN device marketis is expected to be boosted  by the increasing use of technically advanced GaN systems in the defense &  aerospace sector. Growth is attributed to the rising need for increased  bandwidth, as well as performance reliability in radio communications, radars,  electronic warfare, and others. GaN-based integrated circuits are used in radars to enable efficient  navigation and real-time air-traffic control. Moreover, GaN can provide higher  operating frequencies for military  jammers, terrestrial radios, and radar communication. For example, in April, US-based radio frequency (RF) and microwave solution provider  MACOM Technology Solutions Inc was awarded a contract from the US Department of  Defense (DoD) to develop a high-power transmitter. A growing trend in the GaN device market is the incorporation of GaN  in multi-chip modules (MCMs) for 5G telecom infrastructure, since the increased  electrical performance of such hybrid microcircuits boosts efficiency, and a  primary concern is to reduce energy consumption. Because 5G multi-chip modules  help to reduce the size and weight of radio units, mobile network  operators can reduce the cost of putting 5G on cell towers and rooftops. For instance, in June  2021, Netherlands-based chip designer and manufacturer NXP Semiconductors NV  announced the integration of GaN technology into its multi-chip module platform  for 5G energy efficiency. Texas Instruments Inc was the largest player in the GaN  device market in 2021, with a 11.25% share of the market. TI’s growth strategy  focuses on offering innovative solutions through the launch of new products.  For example, in November 2020 it launched its next  generation of 600V and 650V GaN field-effect transistors (FETs) for industrial  and automotive applications. North America was the  largest region in the GaN device market, at $2.13bn in  2021. The GaN device market in North America is supported by government initiatives aimed  at increasing the production of electric vehicles. 