Project to explore ideas to build on UK’s strengths in design, compound semiconductors and advanced technologies A new national  institution could be established as part of plans to boost the infrastructure  underpinning the UK’s industry through the government’s upcoming semiconductor  strategy. The  strategy will aim to “unlock the potential of British microchip businesses,  support jobs and skills to grow the UK’s domestic industry and ensure a  reliably supply of semiconductors”. As part of the semiconductor strategy, the UK Government’s Department  for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS) is commissioning a research  project to look into the feasibility of new national initiatives with the aim  of bringing the nation’s industry together to tackle shared challenges and help  businesses scale up. With an available budget of £700,000-900,000, the project will  look at whether better access to prototyping and manufacturing facilities for  chip firms is needed to tackle barriers to innovation and grow the industry. It  will also cover opportunities to make specialist software tools more available  for start-ups and ways to develop cutting-edge packaging processes. UK semiconductor industry revenue has grown by 95% between 2012  and 2021. The UK has established a number of major industry strengths,  including in chip design, research and compound semiconductors. “In the UK we are leading the world in  areas including design and research,” reckons Digital Secretary Michelle Donelan MP. “We  want to build on these successes and keep our semiconductor sector on the  cutting edge,” she adds. “This study will help us meet our ambition and could  lead to a new national institution and greater research facilities.” The study will consider how to improve infrastructure in five  key areas: industry coordination, silicon prototyping, open-access  manufacturing for compound semiconductors, advanced packaging and intellectual property. The results will inform how the government could deliver on some  of the ambitions set out in the forthcoming semiconductor strategy, which will  be published “as soon as possible” and is not dependent on the completion of  the feasibility study. The UK Government says that the proposed initiative is one of  many options under consideration and does not represent the full breadth of the  strategy. The study will set out the delivery model that a national  initiative could take to have the most positive impact on the industry,  including whether or not the different infrastructure capabilities are  centralized in one organization. 