Mini-LED-backlit automotive display module shipments to grow from 140,000 in 2022 to 450,000 for 2023 Because of their use by European, Chinese and US carmakers, shipments  of mini-LED-backlit display modules are estimated to total about 140,000 units  in 2022, which can be considered to be the inaugural year for their adoption in  the automotive industry, says TrendForce. In 2023, European and US carmakers such as Ford and Jeep are  expected to gradually introduce the display technology to more of their models,  driving shipments to 450,000 units, it forecasts. However, 2024 will be the year  when shipments take off even more dramatically. By then, the further  technological maturation of mini-LED backlights will attract the late adopters  among carmakers, it is reckoned. Shipments are thus forecasted to reach almost  1 million units in 2024.  TrendForce lists four factors that are attracting carmakers to  mini-LED-backlit displays. First, mini-LED backlights offers multiple dimming  zones that can raise the brightness of a display above 1000 nits.  High brightness is especially important for automotive applications because it  helps to minimize glare from the outside environment. For instance, the strong  light reflected from snow or emanating from the sun can interfere with the  driver’s viewing of various displays inside a vehicle, creating safety risks.  Increasing display brightness mitigates this problem. Second, a direct-lit backlight solution featuring mini-LEDs can  turn individual sections of a screen on or off selectively in accordance with  the distribution of the light and dark parts of an image. With the traditional  edge-lit solution, the entire screen is lit all the time. Carmakers can thus  leverage mini-LED backlights to meet their energy-saving requirements, as a  display system can consume about 10% less power by incorporating this  technology. Third, the development of automotive interior displays is trending  towards larger sizes and integration. Direct-lit mini-LED solutions support not  only the ongoing increase in display size but also the optical performance  enabled by highly curved displays. Compared with the traditional edge-lit  solutions, direct-lit mini-LED solutions offer better performance for curved  automotive displays and are suitable for a wide range of automotive interior  displays that differ in size and design. Lastly, mini-LEDs are as highly reliable as conventional LEDs.  Hence, they are expected to be the first choice for display backlight among  carmakers.  As mentioned above, the advantages of direct-lit mini-LED  solutions over edge-lit solutions include overall brightness, contrast, power consumption,  support for the optical performance of a curved display, etc. Apart from these  performance gains, mini-LED backlit displays are also much more reliable than  organic light-emitting diode (OLED) displays for automotive applications.  Priced between traditional edge-lit displays and OLED displays, mini-LED  backlit displays deliver superior cost-to-performance ratio. Taking account of  these benefits, carmakers are expected to be much more enthusiastic about using  mini-LED backlit displays in the future.  Among carmakers, China’s Nio and Roewe have adopted mini-LED  backlit display this year. They applied this solution first to the dashboard  display (which places great demand on performance). Then, they applied it to  the central information display (CID) and panel for air-conditioning (A/C) and  volume controls. US carmaker General Motors (GM) has offered a 33.4-inch  automotive display system with a mini-LED backlight. This system reflects the  trend towards larger sizes and integration as it combines the dashboard display  and CID. Looking at the supply chain for mini-LED backlit  automotive displays, Chinese carmakers have adopted automotive display systems  that comprise mini-LED backlit display modules from BOE. European and US  carmakers use mini-LED backlit display modules from AUO and Innolux. Regardless  of suppliers, display modules are delivered to tier-1 integrators such as Bosch  and CarUx so they can be assembled into display systems. Then, display systems  are sent to car assembly plants for vehicle installation. 