NIST and AIM Photonics collaborating to boost photonic chip design to 110GHz The US  Department of Commerce’s National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)  has entered into a cooperative research and development agreement with AIM Photonics  that will give chip developers a critical new tool for designing faster  integrated photonic circuits, as key components in fiber-optic networks and  high-performance computing facilities as well as laser-guided missiles, medical  sensors and other advanced technologies. As a Manufacturing USA  institute, AIM Photonics (the American Institute  for Manufacturing Integrated Photonics) is an industry-driven, public-private  United States Department of Defense (DoD)-sponsored engineering technology  consortium, spearheaded by the State University of New York Polytechnic Institute (SUNY Poly). Its aim is to accelerate the  commercialization of new technologies for manufacturing photonic chips. The  institute provides small- and medium-sized businesses and academic and  government researchers access to expertise and fabrication facilities during  all phases of the photonics development cycle, from design to fabrication and  packaging. As part of the  new collaboration, NIST will design electrical calibration structures that can  be used to measure and test the electronic performance of the chips. This will  result in improved designs for photonic chips that operate at speeds up to 110GHz.  Most existing photonic chips operate at about 25GHz. “This effort  will leverage NIST’s expertise in chip measurements, calibration and integrated  device modeling,” says Under Secretary of Commerce for Standards and  Technology and NIST director Laurie E. Locascio. Also, while planning  for this effort began before the passage of the CHIPS Act, it aligns with  the act’s goals. “This shows how government and industry can work together to  drive innovation and restore US global leadership in semiconductor  manufacturing,” Locascio adds. In addition,  AIM Photonics will incorporate these calibration structures into its process  design kit (PDK) for engineers designing  new chips for fabrication at AIM’s facilities. “Accurate  measurements are key to advancing high-speed communications,” says David  Harame, AIM Photonics’ chief operating officer. “These enhancements will  give our members and customers the tools they need to design the next  generation of advanced photonic chips.” Experts from  both organizations are already working to integrate the new measurement  structures into AIM Photonics’ foundry process, and an updated PDK with  the calibration structures should be available to users in about a year. 