Riber deploys MBE technology for quantum computing materials development Riber S.A. of Bezons, France – which  manufactures molecular beam epitaxy (MBE) systems as well as evaporation  sources – has further strengthened  its development of quantum processor  materials. 
Through EPICENTRE – a joint  laboratory established in June 2021 with the French National Centre for Scientific Research’s  Laboratory for Analysis and Architecture of Systems (LAAS-CNRS) in  Toulouse – Riber has started to deploy the  technologies making it possible to build the core components of  future-generation quantum computers. These are based on the physical  phenomenon of quantum entanglement, which occurs when two elementary particles – two electrons or  two photons –  share identical parameters even though they are very far apart. This requires  stringent conditions for their production environment, which must be ultra-pure,  ultra-controlled and ultra-cold, with single-atom precision. The technologies available to deliver  these performance levels include MBE.  That is why Riber is part of a joint quantum computers laboratory program to develop  the technological components enabling them to be built. 
  To produce electrons or photons, it is  possible to use quantum dots, developed and controlled using MBE. To transport  them, superconductor metals can be used with ultra-precise (atomic scale) dimensions,  within which the electrons flow undisrupted. MBE technology can deposit these superconducting materials in an  ultra-pure environment with atomic-layer-controlled thickness. These quantum dots and superconductors  need to be perfectly insulated from their environment, which is achieved by  depositing dedicated oxide materials. The various stages for developing the  quantum dots, superconductors and insulators require various deposition  chambers which must have an ultra-high – or almost perfect – vacuum in order  to avoid any contamination. Vacuum  quality is part of the excellence provided by Riber’s technology for these MBE machines. An MBE machine for quantum computers will  therefore include several deposition chambers connected together by robots  under ultra-high-vacuum conditions. It may include three to five chambers  linked by two or three robots under ultra-high-vacuum conditions, controlled by  software that manages the sample movements and material deposition process. Because of the  complexity of this type of equipment due to the number of chambers and the  ultra-purity, ultra-control and ultra-cold performance levels, the technology  has a market value of several million euros per machine, says Riber. This is illustrated by the order worth  several million euros (announced on 25 October) for research equipment,  including several chambers and items of equipment, in order to provide a new  European research laboratory with the flexibility and versatility of MBE to use  materials for future quantum computer components. “Quantum  technology is very promising, but it still needs to overcome some significant  development challenges to build specific chips,” comments Michel  Picault, chairman of Riber’s executive board. “Riber’s MBE technology will make it possible to accelerate  progress towards manufacturing quantum chips on a larger scale,” he adds. “Our  joint laboratory with LAAS-CNRS will help us reach this higher level of  technological maturity more quickly”. 