Ganvix and BluGlass to co-develop green GaN-based VCSELs Early-stage startup company Ganvix Inc of  Wilmington, DE, USA – which specializes in developing nanoporous  gallium nitride (NP-GaN) vertical-cavity  surface-emitting lasers (VCSELs) – and BluGlass Ltd of  Silverwater, Australia – which has  developed proprietary low-temperature, low-hydrogen remote-plasma chemical  vapor deposition (RPCVD) technology for manufacturing devices such as laser  diodes, next-generation LEDs and micro-LEDs – have entered into a  development agreement to combine their complementary technologies to create GaN  VCSELs operating in the green region (515–525nm) of the optical spectrum. GaN VCSEL devices have been long sought after but have not reached commercial maturity due to  material growth and processing challenges. Two critical components of a VCSEL –  the  distributed Bragg mirrors (DBR) and active quantum well  (QW) region –  are more challenging to fabricate in GaN than  for gallium arsenide (GaAs)-based VCSELs, which have seen  significant commercial success operating in infrared wavelengths. In the collaboration, Ganvix will leverage its proprietary VCSEL  architecture based on nanoporous technology to facilitate the fabrication of  DBRs. Ganvix has demonstrated this technology in GaN VCSEL devices operating at  blue wavelengths and has completed the design and demonstrated the DBRs for  green wavelengths. BluGlass will bring its expertise in RPCVD and green active QW design to grow the green QW and laser  active region. The combined  technology will be commercialized by Ganvix, completing a line of VCSEL  products across blue to green wavelengths. The target markets include consumer electronics, industrial,  medical and life sciences,  communications, and metaverse applications such as augmented reality (AR). Near-term applications  include VCSEL-based light engines  for laser scanning displays, lasers, and laser arrays  for free-space and polymer fiber-based communications. “We see many applications for these devices but, until now,  limitations on materials have prevented commercialization,” says Ganvix’s CEO  John Fijol. “The combination of our nanoporous materials, which we demonstrated  earlier this year for blue VCSELs, and BluGlass’ RPCVD-grown GaN provide a path  to finally bring green GaN VCSEL to market,” he adds. “BluGlass’ unique RPCVD technology provides an ideal solution to  increase performance and brightness for green-wavelength lasers,” comments  BluGlass’ president Jim Haden. 