New silicon carbide device-making customer chooses Aehr’s FOX-XP for wafer-level test and burn-in Semiconductor production test and reliability  qualification equipment supplier Aehr Test Systems of Fremont, CA, USA has  received an initial production order from its new major silicon carbide (SiC) device-making customer for  a FOX-XP multi-wafer test and burn-in system configured with Aehr’s new fully  integrated and automated WaferPak Aligner. The FOX-XP system is configured with  Bipolar Voltage Channel Module (BVCM) and  Very High Voltage Channel Module (VHVCM) options which enable new  advanced test and burn-in capabilities for silicon carbide  power semiconductors using Aehr’s  proprietary WaferPak full-wafer contactors. This customer serves several  significant markets including the electric vehicle  (EV) industry as well as other industrial applications. This production system order is a follow-on to an order announced  last quarter for a FOX-NP system that has already been installed at the  customer’s site. Shipments of the FOX-XP system with the new integrated and  automated WaferPak Aligner are expected to begin in Aehr’s fiscal fourth  quarter (beginning 1 March 2023). “This customer has confirmed their commitment to Aehr with their  selection of our FOX platform for production test and burn-in of their silicon carbide wafers,” says president & CEO  Gayn Erickson. “They have told us, and we believe, they will order a  significant number of FOX-XP systems for volume production of their silicon carbide devices at facilities around the  world to meet the exploding forecasted market demand for silicon carbide devices for electric vehicles and other industrial markets.” “In addition to the cost-effectiveness and scalability of our  system, this customer has told us and expressed publicly how important  automation is to them across their wafer fabrication and assembly & test,  and that our fully integrated FOX-XP with automated WaferPak alignment and  handling is key to meeting their automation needs that are critical to their  scalability, as well as the quality and reliability goals of the customers and  markets they serve,” Erickson continues. “This customer will be our lead  customer for high volume using our new FOX-XP wafer-level test and burn-in  system with our new fully automated and integrated WaferPak alignment and  material handling system.” “The FOX-XP with integrated WaferPak Aligner uses our proprietary  WaferPak full-wafer contactors and supports 100mm, 150mm, 200mm and 300mm  wafers sizes using industry-standard wafer cassettes and FOUPs (front-opening  unified pods). This allows customers to easily support multiple wafer sizes, which is critical to the silicon carbide market where a high mix of wafer  sizes is expected in high-volume production over the next several years. This  new configuration allows our customers to move and align the wafers  automatically into our proprietary WaferPaks and place the WaferPaks into and  out of our multi-wafer FOX-XP systems that test and burn-in up to 18 wafers at  a time.” The FOX-XP configured with the integrated and automated WaferPak  Aligner has a number of additional features for automation of the test floor.  These include unattended changeovers from one product to the next, and the  ability to run multiple different product type  wafers in parallel. “In addition, 100% tracking and traceability of wafers and  logging individual die test results  has become key to companies serving mission-critical applications and markets  such as the electric vehicle engine  inverters and their on-board and off-board chargers that are driving the  explosive demand for silicon carbide  devices,” says Erickson. Forecasts from Canaccord Genuity estimate that the silicon carbide market for devices in electric vehicles, such as traction inverters and  on-board chargers, is expected to grow from fewer than 150,000 wafers in 2021  to more than four million  6-inch-equivalent wafers in 2030 to meet the demand of the automotive EV  market, representing a growth rate of over 25 times  the current wafer capacity just for the in-vehicle devices. Canaccord also  estimates that the silicon carbide  market will require an additional four million  SiC wafers annually by 2030 to meet demand for electrification infrastructure,  industrial and photovoltaic power devices. “The FOX family of compatible systems including the FOX-NP and  FOX-XP multi-wafer test and burn-in systems and Aehr’s proprietary WaferPak  full-wafer contactors provide a uniquely cost-effective solution for burning in  multiple wafers of devices at a single time to remove early life failures of  silicon carbide devices, which is  critical to meeting the initial quality and long-term reliability the automotive,  industrial and electrification infrastructure industry needs,” notes Erickson.  “The FOX-XP system can be configured with up to nine or 18 wafers depending on the customer’s  specific test requirements and power  configuration and is fully compatible with Aehr’s FOX-NP system, which is a  two-wafer system that is a great fit for new production introduction and  qualification.” The FOX-XP and FOX-NP systems, available with multiple  WaferPakContactors (full-wafer test) or multiple DiePak Carriers (singulated  die/module test) configurations, are capable of functional test and  burn-in/cycling of devices such as silicon carbide  and gallium nitride power semiconductors, silicon photonics as well as other optical devices, 2D and 3D sensors, flash  memories, magnetic sensors, microcontrollers, and other leading-edge ICs in  either wafer form factor, before  they are assembled into single- or  multi-die stacked packages, or in singulated die or module form factor. 