Transphorm releases new GaN FET reliability ratings, now segmented into low and high power levels Transphorm Inc of Goleta, near Santa Barbara,  CA, USA — which designs and manufactures JEDEC- and AEC-Q101-qualified gallium nitride  (GaN) field-effect transistors (FETs) for high-voltage power conversion — has announced the latest reliability  ratings for its GaN power FETs. Reliability is measured by failures in time (FIT), which considers the number of  devices reported by customers to have failed in the field when used in  applications. To date, the firm’s total product portfolio has achieved an  average <0.1 FIT rate based on more  than 85 billion hours of field  operation. This rating stands as one of the industry’s best and only reported  broad power spectrum reliability  rating of any GaN power solution  available, it is claimed. Transphorm says that it built its GaN platform with reliability in  mind, understanding its importance when the wide-bandgap technology first hit  the market: even though GaN boasted higher performance than silicon-based  transistors, customers would not opt to switch to the then-new technology if  the devices failed in real-world use. In 2019, Transphorm was the first GaN  manufacturer to publish a complete validation data set  backing its reliability claims. Since then, the firm regularly shares its GaN  reliability to help potential customers make informed decisions when choosing  semiconductor suppliers. Transphorm last reported its FIT rate to be <0.3 in  first-quarter 2022. This year, Transphorm has taken its reliability data and segmented  it into two categories: When looking at device performance by power-level type,  Transphorm’s GaN FETs yield the following reliability ratings that are notably  similar to those of silicon-based power devices: “Our high-voltage GaN devices are designed into the broadest range  of applications covering the widest power spectrum, from 45W to 4kW today with  the potential to reach 10+kW as GaN is adopted into new markets. This shows the  immense versatility of our technology,” says Philip Zuk, senior VP of business development &  marketing. “However, we realized that reporting just a singular reliability  rating that lumps all application types together may not be as useful to  customers. We felt it necessary to help them access more nuanced data that  would apply to their specific design requirements. Hence, the breakdown between  low and high power.” 