Plasma-Therm receives follow-on Japan order for Heatpulse RTP system for automotive SiC MOSFET power devices Plasma-Therm LLC of St Petersburg,  FL, USA (which makes plasma-process equipment for the semiconductor and  compound semiconductor markets)  has received an order from a leading Japanese device maker for multiple systems  built on its newly redesigned Heatpulse rapid thermal processing (RTP)  platform, launched in July at SEMICON West 2022. The Heatpulse  systems will be used to manufacture silicon carbide (SiC) MOSFET  power devices in Japan for electric vehicles (EVs) and other  automotive applications. Plasma-Therm says that the new platform continues to garner  significant interest among its global customer base to meet new processing  demands and greater return on investment (ROI) — including multiple  orders announced in Europe last month. The Japan-based customer selected Heatpulse  RTP for its new dual-oven configuration, ability to reach temperatures over  1000°C, as well as for its all-new Cortex  advanced monitoring and control software. “Many device makers are struggling with supply chain issues  impacting their ability to meet current demand for spare parts, including for  legacy installed Heatpulse systems,” says Jim Garstka, VP of sales &  business development. “Our strategy is to provide our customers with a solution  to modernize their existing installed systems and mitigate risk associated with  sourcing spare parts. This allows customers to immediately benefit from  critical system upgrades to boost performance and throughput, while keeping  their existing processes running smoothly in production into the next decade,”  he adds. “We are continuing to see rapid growth in specialty markets for  200mm and smaller substrates, including for the power devices for  automotive applications, with 6.2% growth in Japan projected by industry  analysts,” says Plasma-Therm Japan country manager Hirokuni Shibata. “With  the majority of our Heatpulse legacy systems installed in Japan, we are excited  to offer our customers immediate solutions to boost processing performance and  ensure maximum tool uptime.” The redesigned Heatpulse RTP platform is fully compatible with  legacy AG Heatpulse 8108 and 8800 systems and existing processes. The  flexible platform can accommodate multiple wafer sizes and features  upgraded robotics and Plasma-Therm’s Cortex process control  software. With the dual-oven configuration, the new Heatpulse delivers higher  throughput per square meter in a smaller footprint, enabling customers to  realize higher ROI. The direct result is optimized production yields and  capacity with maximized uptime during high-volume manufacturing, says Plasma-Therm.  Additionally, the new Heatpulse RTP wafer size conversion kits are  implemented, eliminating complicated, time-consuming system hardware changes to  help further increase ROI and save time and money during conversion. The newly redesigned Heatpulse RTP platform processes substrates  up to 200mm in diameter for a wide variety of materials, including silicon,  gallium arsenide, SiC, and other compound semiconductors. Offering greater  flexibility to accommodate multiple wafer sizes, the new platform features  upgraded robotics and Plasma-Therm’s Cortex process control and  monitoring software. The firm also offers easily implemented conversion kits to  upgrade currently installed systems, eliminating complicated hardware changes  and ensuring full compatibility with existing processes. Cortex is Plasma-Therm’s core advanced process control  software offering a seamless, intuitive user interface for process  development, operations and maintenance across all etch, deposition, RTP and  plasma-dicing product lines. The software enables increased tool reliability  and optimization with the ability to develop and maintain process recipes, safe  and secure maintenance, and real-time data analysis for performance  fine-tuning and repeatability. Cortex also features integrated end-point  detection for tighter process control utilizing laser interferometry for  precise rate determination and optical emission spectrometry. All Cortex  systems provide secure remote access for diagnostics and process support. 