Tomás Palacios named director of MIT’s Microsystems Technology Laboratories Maria Zuber (vice president  of research and E.A. Griswold Professor of Geophysics) and Anantha  Chandrakasan (dean of the School of Engineering and the Vannevar Bush  Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science) say that on 1 December  Tomás Palacios assumed the role of director of the Microsystems Technology  Laboratories (MTL) at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). Palacios has  served as director of the 6-A MEng Thesis Program; Industry Officer;  and Professor of Electrical Engineering within the Department of Electrical  Engineering and Computer Science (EECS). He succeeds Advanced Television and  Signal Processing (ATSP) professor Hae-Seung (Harry) Lee, who has been MTL  director since 2019. Picture: Tomás Palacios. “MTL’s  commitment to developing innovative technologies at all levels of the stack,  from materials to devices, circuits and systems is an example to all,” comments  Palacios. “We just need to browse the internet, make a phone call, or recharge  our electric vehicle to see how technologies that came out of MTL have  found their place in applications all around us.” Palacios  joined MTL in 2006, after receiving his PhD from the University of California –  Santa Barbara, and his undergraduate degree in Telecommunication  Engineering from the Universidad Politécnica de Madrid (Spain). An expert  in gallium nitride electronics for both radio frequency and power  applications, Palacios and his group have also made seminal contributions to  two-dimensional materials and devices, and their heterogeneous integration with  state-of-the-art silicon electronics. Palacios is the founding director of the  MTL Center for Graphene Devices and 2D Systems, as well as the co-founder  of MTL spin-off Finwave Semiconductor Inc, which is commercializing GaN  power amplifiers for 5G communications. Palacios is a  Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), and has  served the microelectronics community in many roles, more recently as the  general chair for the IEEE Symposium on Very Large-Scale Integration (VLSI)  Technology and Circuits. His work has been recognized with awards including the  Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers, the 2012 and  2019 IEEE George Smith Award, and the National Science Foundation (NSF),  Office of Naval Research (ONR), and the Defense Advanced Research  Projects Agency (DARPA) Young Faculty Awards. “Semiconductors  and microsystems have never been more important. It is not only about their  tremendous implications to computing and communication, but also that they are  the key to solving the climate crisis, transforming healthcare and, even, the  future of education,” says Palacios, who promises that the lab will continue to  build on its history of innovation. “We have a-once-in-a-generation opportunity  to set the foundation for the future of semiconductors and microsystems, and  everything that means for the future of our society… The MTL community will  play a vital role in setting this foundation.” Palacios is  assuming this new role during a period of transition for MTL. In January, MTL  will move to the Office of the Vice President for Research, maintaining a  dotted line reporting to the School of Engineering. This move will help foster  further collaboration between MTL and the Research Laboratory for Electronics  (RLE) and grow the microelectronic and nanotechnology research community at  MIT. 