Hamamatsu Photonics adopts Siemens’ mPower digital software Siemens Digital Industries Software of Plano, TX,  USA says that Japan-based Hamamatsu Photonics K.K. has adopted Siemens’ mPower digital software for the power  integrity analysis of its next generation of optical semiconductor devices. Hamamatsu Photonics provides products such as photodiodes, photo ICs, image sensors, infrared detection devices and LEDs – all of  which support multiple wavelength ranges (e.g. infrared, visible, ultraviolet,  x-ray, high-energy). The products are widely used in many applications,  including the scientific measurement, medical and automotive markets. “Power integrity analysis is a critical technology for us, because  our optical IC products need to achieve extremely high performance and  reliability in order to meet stringent functionality requirements,” says  Masaaki Matsubara, manager for the second design group, Design Center, Solid State Division. “Siemens’ mPower digital software is our best  option for improving IC performance and reliability. Our designers use the  mPower solution to analyze their designs at early stages of development, and  the software definitely helps to optimize the power source design faster.” Introduced last year, Siemens’ mPower solution aids customers to  more quickly and accurately perform sign-off analysis of the power,  electro-migration and IR-drop performance of integrated circuits, helping them to confirm that their as-implemented design  will meet performance and reliability targets when manufactured. Siemens says that its mPower digital software provides power  integrity analysis with high accuracy through fast and efficient distributed  processing. Featuring an intuitive graphical user interface for optimal  ease-of-use, the solution supports analysis across the IC design process, from  initial concept design to design sign-off, helping users to create better  designs with no compromise in quality or speed. For optimal reliability and IC  traceability, mPower also integrates seamlessly with Siemens’ Calibre RVE  software, which is part of its Calibre platform for IC physical verification. “As image sensors grow in size and complexity, it becomes both  harder and more critical to verify the power integrity of these very large  designs,” notes Joe Davis, senior director for Interfaces and EM/IR Product  Management for Siemens EDA. “Hammamatsu Photonics quickly determined that the mPower  solution provides the capacity, performance and integration that they need in  order to bring high-performance, high-resolution sensors to the market, and we  look forward to working with them as they bring more advanced designs to the  market.” 