Edge-emitting laser market growing at 13% CAGR to $7.4bn in 2027 The market for  edge-emitting  lasers (EELs) is growing at  a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 13% from  $3.5bn in 2021 to $7.4bn in 2027, reckons Yole Intelligence (part of  Yole Group) in its report ‘Edge Emitting Lasers – Technology and Market Trends 2022’.  The semiconductor laser landscape, and  especially edge-emitting lasers, is highly fragmented and diversified, as laser  technologies are now ubiquitous in many traditional as well as emerging  applications. Edge-emitting lasers are implemented in a wide variety of types,  including diode lasers, fiber lasers, diode-pumped solid-state lasers (DPSSLs)  and optically pumped semiconductor lasers (OPSLs). Traditional applications cover industrial, telecommunications,  scientific, and consumer markets. Specifically, these span optical  communications, material processing, displays, automotive lighting, medical  dermatology, surgery, and 3D sensing in light detection & ranging (LiDAR). Also, the many niche  applications include military & aerospace markets and spectroscopic  analysis for the life science market. “Growth  continues to be driven by optical communication, such as optical modules and  amplifiers for datacom and telecom, as well as 3D sensing applications,” notes Martin Vallo Ph.D., senior analyst, Photonics (who specializes in  optical communication and semiconductor lasers within the Photonics and Sensing  division).  Each application is addressed by a  specific supply/value chain, as a variety of edge-emitting laser device designs  have been developed:  In parallel, for integrators, many  questions arise, notes Yole. What is the correct laser device for an application?  Which parameters are most important? Laser technology is essentially an  interaction of light and matter, so new applications are still emerging for  sensing, material processing, and life sciences. Applications define device  specifications, and integrators must consider several technical parameters,  including wavelength, power output, spectral resolution, light beam  quality, and optical intensity. Understanding application requirements and  evaluating laser parameters is, therefore, key to making the right investment  decisions. This is even more important as edge-emitting laser prices vary  widely depending on design and technical parameters. 