CGD and IFP Energies nouvelles sign automotive inverter development deal Fabless semiconductor company Cambridge GaN  Devices Ltd (CGD) has  signed an agreement with IFP Energies nouvelles (IFPEN) — a French public  research and training organization in the fields of energy, transport and the  environment — to develop an automotive inverter using GaN devices. Spun out of the University of Cambridge Department of  Engineering’s Electrical Power and Energy Conversion group in 2016 by Dr  Giorgia Longobardi and professor Florin Udrea, CGD designs, develops and  commercializes power transistors and  ICs that use GaN-on-silicon substrates. “Technological innovation is central to all IFPEN’s activities.  Therefore we are particularly excited that IFPEN has chosen CGD’s ICeGaN GaN HEMTs [high-electron-mobility  transistors] in this new automotive inverter design,” says co-founder & CEO  Longobardi. “IFPEN also shares CGD’s belief that close partnerships with key  players are essential to the success of any project,” she adds. “This partnership with CGD is a key element for our future  activities in power electronics for  e-mobility, specifically for the next generation of inverters where a  technological step is required to reduce size and increase power density levels while challenging the  cost,” says Gaëtan Monnier, director of IFPEN’s Mobility  business unit. “We count on the  cooperation with this young and dynamic, extremely innovative company to  address the ambitious challenges critical to the future of e-mobility  industries.” The partnership combines two highly complementary areas of  expertise. IFPEN is said to understand the automotive market and its  performance targets, and possess a strong position in inverter and software  development, with in-depth knowledge of the algorithms and equipment required.  CGD’s GaN technology has resulted in  what is claimed to be the industry’s first easy-to-use and scalable 650V GaN HEMT family. The company’s ICeGaN H1 series devices are single-chip  enhancement-mode HEMTs that can be driven  like a MOSFET, without the need for special gate drivers,  complex and lossy driving circuits, negative voltage supply requirements or  additional clamping components. ICeGaN HEMTs require no cascode structure, no  complex multi-chip configurations, and no thermally complex integrated  solutions. Instead, they comprise a single-chip solution with embedded  proprietary logic, which enables coupling with standard gate drivers or  controllers. Devices are said to be extremely reliable, suiting demanding  application environments (as found in the  automotive market). 