Fraunhofer IAF launches BEACON project as part of ESA’s ARTES program Due to limited bandwidth, it is becoming increasingly difficult to  meet the growing need for higher data rates in satellite systems with very  high data throughput. Using higher frequencies can help to meet this  increasing demand. The W-band  (75–110GHz) is well suited for satellite communication applications: Not only  does it offer high data throughput when used at high altitudes and in space but  it is also likely to significantly increase system capacity, reduce the number  of gateway earth stations, and thus reduce overall system costs. However,  there has been a lack of suitable technology and hardware for applications in  the W-band frequency range to date. The Fraunhofer  Institute for Applied Solid State Physics IAF, together with RPG  Radiometer Physics GmbH, has hence launched the project ‘BEACON  — W-band Integrated Active Receive Front-End’, realized as part of the European Space Agency (ESA) ARTES (Advanced Research in Telecommunications Systems)  Advanced Technology Program. The project partners are  developing an integrated active W-band receive front-end module with  an operating frequency of 81-86GHz that is lower in noise than any previous W-band  amplifier module, enabling extremely high data rates or  long-distance data transmission through space with low power consumption. The receive module  is based on Fraunhofer IAF’s extremely low-noise monolithic microwave  integrated circuit (MMIC) technology. “Fraunhofer IAF has done  tremendous development work in the mHEMT [metamorphic high-electron-mobility  transistor] process over the past years and has acquired a core competence in  developing amplifiers with the lowest noise worldwide,” says project coordinator  and researcher Dr Philipp Neininger. “Based on this, the project aims to  reduce the noise figure to below 3.5dB and thus significantly improve the  state of the art.” In addition,  the receive module is designed to isolate left-hand from right-hand circular  polarization and amplify them with two separate channels (LHCP and RHCP), which  serves to effectively double data throughput.  Picture:  Similar RF module developed at Fraunhofer IAF.  © Fraunhofer IAF A major  challenge in the BEACON project is the novel arrangement of components on the  very small module area. The new approach involves integrating a large  number of functions within a very small footprint: These include the polarizer,  waveguide transitions to two individual amplifiers, two coaxial output  connectors and the associated DC circuitry. “The combination of these  features — extremely low noise, two different polarizations and an innovative  array — brings an enormous technological advance in the field of W-band  components,” Neininger says.  Picture:  The W-band receive module is intended to  enable low-noise data transmission in satellite communications in  the future — such as in the W-Cube nanosatellite pictured. © Fraunhofer IAF Only last  year, satellite signals in the W-band frequency range were received from space  for the first time. The W-Cube nanosatellite began its journey to polar orbit  aboard a Falcon 9 rocket in summer 2021 and has since been transmitting  satellite signals to Earth at 75GHz from an altitude of 500km. For this  mission, Fraunhofer IAF had already developed the transmitter module of the  satellite as well as the receive module of the corresponding ground station. 