Virginia Tech gains $1.5m, four-year NSF grant to research optically driven power switches Principal investigator Yuhao  Zhang and three other professors from the  Bradley Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering have been awarded a  $1.5m grant from the US National Science Foundation’s Electrical, Communications  and Cyber Systems flagship program ASCENT (Addressing Systems Challenges  through Engineering Teams), which is focused on future semiconductor  technologies. Zhang and his team are proposing what is reckoned to be a  first-of-its-kind semiconductor technology that is optically driven for use in  grid power electronics. Key collaborators in the project include faculty from the Center  for Power Electronics Systems  (CPES) in Arlington and Blacksburg and the Center for Photonics Technology (CPT). Both of these research centers are based at  Virginia Tech. Working with Zhang (an expert in the areas of power electronics, micro/nano-electronic  devices, and advanced semiconductor materials) are assistant professors Dong Dong and Christina DiMarino and  associate professor Xiaoting Jia. Dong is a faculty member of the  Center for Power Electronics  Systems with research expertise in power electronics  and power conversion systems.  DiMarino is also a member of that center’s faculty and has expertise in power electronics packaging. Jia is a faculty  member of the Center for Photonics Technology with a background in fiber-based  neural interfaces, nano-bio  interfaces, and fiber sensors and devices. The existing US power grid  relies primarily on coal and natural gas  to produce electricity. Furthermore, electricity generation is responsible for  about 25% of greenhouse gas  emissions. In an effort to reduce this environmental impact, the team will  leverage the unique electronic and optical properties of ultra-wide-bandgap  semiconductors that can withstand a very high electric field. Most existing power switches are electrically driven, relying on  the base drive current or the gate-drive voltage to turn the device on and  off. As more renewable energies and higher power levels have been  introduced into the grid structure, the high switching frequency needed  has increased the risk of noise. In addition, stacking hundreds of devices to  enhance power means that it is difficult for them to be driven synchronously. Explaining the existing setbacks of electrical semiconductors and  the potential for optically driven devices, DiMarino says that, when electrical  noise occurs, devices can transition on and off very quickly (false triggering), which creates a disturbance. For multiple  devices, the non-synchronous driving also will lead to false triggering. This  can cause problems like short circuits and eventually system failure in the  grid. Optically driven semiconductors operate on the principle of  photo-generation, using a light source from a laser fiber to turn the switch on  and off. This approach provides more noise immunity because photons are used instead  of electrons. The fast speed of light allows for an ideal synchronization for  driving hundreds of devices, and the number of required electrical components  can be reduced. Implementing these devices into the semiconductor power grid would  drastically simplify the complexity of grid-scale power, resulting in greatly  improved scalability, efficiency, interactivity and resiliency, say the  researchers. Zhang recently published a review on the field of power semiconductors  and power electronics in Nature Electronics in  collaboration with faculty from the University of Cambridge and the University  of Southern California. “The power semiconductor market has reached $40bn and is  forecasted to more than double that amount by the year 2030,” says Zhang. “Innovation  in power semiconductors is a driver for energy savings in data centers,  electric vehicles, and the electric grid. Therefore, it holds the key for  realizing the unprecedented cuts in carbon dioxide for a greener and more  sustainable environment.” “Our department is very diverse and transdisciplinary,” says  Zhang. “One unique thing about the department is that we are not just  collaborating with individuals but also collaborating with different centers —  in this case, CPES and CPT. These research centers add another opportunity to  strengthen the bond,” he adds. Each team member will contribute to different areas of the project  at different stages throughout the four-year timeline. Zhang, Jia and Dong are  all National Science Foundation CAREER Award winners and provide strong  knowledge in their respective fields. DiMarino has received the Virginia Tech  College of Engineering Outstanding New Assistant Professor Award and the  DOE ARPA-E OPEN 2021 Award. As part of the ASCENT grant, the team will provide educational  opportunities to train future engineers in the areas of semiconductor  technologies, optical systems, power electronics, and  microelectronics. The researchers will partner with a team in electrical and  computer engineering’s Major Design Experience, a two-semester senior design project  course that gives students industry-like experience. The team members also will add project-related curricula to their  current undergraduate and graduate courses. With additional access to Center  for Power Electronics Systems resources, students will have real-world  learning experiences while interacting with industry professionals. The researchers also plan to collaborate with the Center for the  Enhancement of Engineering Diversity at Virginia Tech to introduce  semiconductor, power electronics, and nanotechnology to students,  particularly middle school and high school girls. The resulting  summer camps will provide hands-on experiences of the new technologies. Zhang is hopeful for the future of the grid based on the research  being done, the technology being developed, and the training being provided to  students — all focused in the area of semiconductors. “The advancements we are  going to develop are for the next generation of power electronics,” he says. “If  successful, the hope is that, in 10–20 years, we can have these devices  built into the system.” 