UCSB’s Steven DenBaars and Jonathan Klamkin honored by Optica University of California Santa Barbara  (UCSB) College of Engineering professors Steven DenBaars and Jonathan Klamkin are among the 109 members  from 24 countries who have been elected to the 2023 Fellow Class of Optica  (the society advancing optics and  photonics worldwide), formerly known as the Optical Society (OSA). Fellows  are selected based on several factors, including outstanding contributions to  business, education, research, engineering and service to Optica and the field. “Congratulations to professors Steven DenBaars and Jonathan  Klamkin,” says Tresa Pollock, interim dean of UCSB’s College of Engineering and  Alcoa Distinguished Professor of Materials. “This prestigious and well-deserved  recognition from their peers reflects their work to advance the field of optics  and photonics and contribute to the next generation of energy-efficient  technology.” DenBaars, a distinguished professor in the Materials and  Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) Departments, was recognized for his  “leadership and pioneering contributions to gallium nitride (GaN)-based  materials and devices for solid-state lighting and displays”. Since joining the  faculty at UCSB in 1991, DenBaars has helped to pioneer the field of  solid-state lighting, establishing and improving GaN materials and devices used  for lighting and displays. His specific research interests include growth of  wide-bandgap semiconductors and their application to blue light-emitting diodes  (LEDs) and lasers, and high-power electronic devices. An elected member of the  National Academy of Engineering, DenBaars is also a fellow of the National  Academy of Inventors and the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers  (IEEE). Klamkin was recognized for his “major contributions to integrated  microwave photonics and photonic ICs, particularly integrated optical beam  forming networks”. Klamkin's research areas of focus include: integrated  photonics; silicon photonics; optical communications; nanophotonics;  microwave photonics; compound semiconductors; photonic integration techniques;  and electronic-photonic integration. His previous honors include the Young Investigator  Award, US Defense Advanced Research  Projects Agency (DARPA); Director's Fellowship, DARPA; Early Career Faculty Award, NASA; and the Young Scientist Award, Photonics and Electromagnetics  Research Symposium (PIERS). 