Wolfspeed sponsors FIRST Robotics Competitions in North Carolina, California, Arkansas and Arizona Wolfspeed Inc of Durham, NC, USA – which makes silicon carbide  materials as well as silicon carbide (SiC) and gallium nitride (GaN)  power-switching & RF semiconductor devices – is sponsoring the FIRST Robotics  Competition, a hands-on STEM (science, technology, engineering and math)  program that combines the excitement of athletics with the rigors of science  and technology for high-school students. The  sponsorship builds upon the company’s relationship with FIRST Robotics Competition, with Wolfspeed first announcing a  $25,000 donation in November 2019 to the SUNY Poly  Foundation to provide support for SUNY Polytechnic Institute FIRST (For the Inspiration and Recognition of  Science and Technology) teams and the Muccbots, a team in Utica, New York. “Our company  represents 35 years of innovation,  and we are proud to contribute as the participants work together to create  solutions and change the world for better,” says Tamara Pearce, Wolfspeed’s  senior director of diversity, equity and inclusion. “The jobs of the future  don’t even exist yet, but this program helps develop the curiosity and  problem-solving needed to be successful and adaptive to any challenges that the  coming years may bring.” FIRST is a  youth-serving not-for-profit advancing STEM education. Its high-school-age  program FIRST Robotics  Competition challenges teams of students to build and program industrial-sized  robots, ultimately playing a field game in an alliance with other teams and  competing to attend the annual FIRST  Championship. The program mimics real-world engineering scenarios and develops  supplemental skillsets, such as collaboration, fundraising and marketing. The  competition’s 2023 theme will focus on the United Nations’  sustainable development goal of ensuring access to affordable, reliable and  sustainable energy for all. Wolfspeed employees have previously supported the  program by serving as judges for the Arkansas-area competitions. “Building on  their continued commitment to endorse STEM programs and minimize opportunity  gaps for under-represented populations, we are proud to have Wolfspeed’s support  as a sponsor,” says Collin Fultz, senior program director  of FIRST Robotics Competition.  “As a leader in silicon carbide  technology that helps to create a clean energy  future for all, this partnership gives our participants yet another example of  how teamwork paves the way for a brighter tomorrow.” As part of its  announced sustainability goals, Wolfspeed is seeking to establish STEM  partnerships at 100% of its major locations by 2025. By serving as a sponsor  for FIRST Robotics Competition  in Durham, North Carolina; Morgan Hill, California; Fayetteville, Arkansas;  and Mesa, Arizona, Wolfspeed reckons that it has made good progress on  fulfilling this commitment. 