Semikron Danfoss secure long-term agreement to supply SiC modules for Dana’s inverters Semikron Danfoss of Nuremberg and Flensburg, Germany has announced  a long-term agreement to supply silicon carbide (SiC) modules for use in the TM4 silicon carbide  inverters of Dana Inc, a tier-1 manufacturer of propulsion  solutions to power vehicles and mobile machines. Semikron  Danfoss’ eMPack platform is  optimized for SiC technology, and the fully sintered ‘Direct Pressed Die’ (DPD)  technology (which allows for  extremely compact, scalable and reliable inverters) is said to be one of the  crucial factors that clinched the deal between Dana and Semikron Danfoss. “Our  modular design, capable of utilizing SiC devices from multiple chip sources, is the ideal module platform for  Dana’s broad inverter portfolio,” says Siegbert Haumann, senior VP, Semikron Danfoss  Automotive Division. Targeted  for use across the light-vehicle, commercial-vehicle and off-highway mobility  markets, Dana’s silicon carbide  inverter designs can enable higher system efficiency  and power density in a compact  package for medium- and high-voltage inverter applications, resulting in the  potential for increased range. “This  long-term supply agreement with Semikron Danfoss gives us a strong strategic  advantage as we expand the use of silicon carbide  technology and support our customers with innovative, efficient and powerful  solutions,” says Dana’s chief technology officer  Christophe Dominiak. “The  eMobility market is accelerating at a staggering pace,” notes Semikron Danfoss’ CEO Claus Petersen. “Combined  with a major technology shift from silicon to silicon carbide, it creates an extremely dynamic market environment  where close communication and fast decision making  is essential. This is best executed in a close cooperation between two strong  partners,” he adds. The  eMobility market is expected to remain one of the fastest-growing markets for  power semiconductors in the years ahead. According to business intelligence and  strategy research company BIS Research, the number of hybrid and electric vehicles will continue to grow by 23% a  year until 2029. 