Finwave joins MITRE Engenuity’s Semiconductor Alliance Finwave Semiconductor Inc  of Waltham, MA, USA has joined MITRE Engenuity’s Semiconductor Alliance.  Finwave says that it has answered the group’s call for industry participation  to help establish a US-wide approach to protect IP in advanced microelectronics  R&D, manufacturing and supply chain resilience. Led by MITRE Engenuity (a subsidiary of MITRE, a tech foundation for public good), the Semiconductor Alliance was developed  from working groups in 2021, and its principles were published in a white paper  ‘American Innovation, American Growth’ summarizing the Alliance’s  whole-of-nation call to action for a fair and objective National  Semiconductor Technology Center (NSTC). Founded in  2012 by researchers at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) as Cambridge  Electronics before being rebranded this June as Finwave Semiconductor (with  offices in San Diego, CA and the Bay Area), the firm targets 5G communications  with its 3DGaN technology, which features a 3D fin gallium nitride transistor  (GaN FinFET) structure. Finwave says that it brings to the Alliance a combination of university  research, technology patents and industry professionals with company-building  experience. The Semiconductor Alliance has been tasked with addressing  semiconductor supply chain issues and ensuring that American IT innovation  leads to American growth, and that these initiatives align closely with  Finwave’s goal to make disruptive 3DGaN FinFET IC technology readily available. GaN semiconductors are currently manufactured almost exclusively  outside the USA. Working with the Semiconductor Alliance, Finwave aims to  change that by stimulating IC manufacturing in the USA. Finwave champions the  building of new fabs, as well as the expansion of existing fabs, to boost  American semiconductor research, development and production. “Our plan calls for radical collaboration to secure semiconductor  technology innovation, manufacturing leadership, and supply chain  resilience,” says MITRE Engenuity’s chief technologist Raj Jammy Ph.D.,  executive director of the Semiconductor Alliance. “Finwave’s plans to increase  the economic competitiveness of its innovative GaN technology are exactly the  type of forward-thinking ideas we need to revitalize US semiconductor  leadership.” Seeking to address the many challenges related to 5G, Finwave’s  3DGaN FinFET technology combines what is claimed to be best-in-class power  amplification efficiency with high-volume manufacturing to overcome the  performance and cost limitations that have together stymied widespread adoption  of millimeter-wave (mmWave), says Finwave. The firm says that it significantly  improves linearity, output power and efficiency in 5G mmWave systems, while  greatly reducing costs for carriers. By leveraging high-volume 8-inch silicon  CMOS fabs for producing 3DGaN chips, Finwave’s devices benefit from both the  cost model and scalability of silicon technology. “Semiconductor innovation is the key to making critical advances  in things like 5G, artificial intelligence (AI), the Internet of Things  and other technologies that benefit society and are shaping the future,” says  CEO Bin Lu. “In joining the Alliance’s growing membership, Finwave will have  access to high-volume fabs and the lithography requirements necessary to bring  our technology to volume production – and unlock the promise of 5G.” 