Smartphone production in Q3 down 11% year-on-year According to market research firm TrendForce,  global smartphone production totaled about 289 million  units in Q3/2022, down 0.9% quarter-on-quarter and 11% year-on-year. The  smartphone market thus saw extremely weak demand as the ‘iron law’ of positive growth in the third  quarter was broken after being in effect for years. The contraction of  production during this year’s peak season was mainly attributed to smartphone  brands giving priority to the consumption of channel inventory for whole  devices and maintaining a fairly conservative production plan for Q3/2022.  Moreover, they had kept lowering their production targets due to strong global  economic headwinds.  Of the major smartphone brands in Q3/2022, Samsung produced about 64.2 million units, up just 3.9% quarter-on-quarter,  as a result of the brand scaling back production since Q2/2022 and maintaining  a conservative outlook on the future market situation. Due to persistent  inventory pressure, Samsung is expected to again post a quarter-on-quarter decline  for Q4/2022. Regarding product development, Samsung has been the leader in  foldable smartphones. This year, the global market share of foldable  smartphones is estimated to reach 1.1% and, within this segment, Samsung is  expected to hold a share of almost 90%. As for 2023, the global market share of  foldable smartphones is forecasted to climb to 1.5%, with Samsung retaining a  share of almost 80% in the segment. Apple posted 50.8 million  units in iPhone production in Q3/2022, showing a stable growth trend. Apple had  benefited from the reallocation of the demand that was originally going to  Huawei’s smartphones as well as the optimal pricing for the new iPhone models.  Furthermore, the third quarter is usually the production ramp-up period as  Apple intends to push sales of the new iPhone models to their peak in the  fourth quarter. Following the release of the iPhone 14 series, much of the demand for the new iPhone models has  been tilted towards the Pro subseries. Accordingly, Apple has also adjusted the  share distribution of the different new models in iPhone production. However, Foxconn’s EMS base in the Chinese city of Zhengzhou has  recently experienced a drop in capacity utilization rate due to a local  COVID-19 outbreak. Since the base is also Apple’s main site for manufacturing  the iPhone Pro models, this incident  will impact total iPhone production in Q4/2022. The ranking of the top five global smartphone brands by production  for Q3/2022 is rounded out by Xiaomi, OPPO and Vivo at third, fourth and fifth,  respectively. Xiaomi encompasses its sub-brands Redmi, POCO and Black Shark; OPPO includes Realme and OnePlus;  and Vivo also takes account of iQoo. Among them, only Xiaomi maintained about  the same device production volume compared with the previous quarter, whereas  the other two recorded a quarter-on-quarter drop. All of them have been  constrained in raising production during the second half of this year due to  the pressure to correct excess inventory. They also have to deal with COVID-19  lockdowns in the home market and the recent deceleration of India’s economic  growth. Moving into Q4/2022, these three Chinese brands are expected to post  mostly flat growth in device production. Looking further ahead, Xiaomi, OPPO and Vivo will face significant  challenges, says TrendForce. First, China, as their home and primary market, is  already highly saturated. The enforcement of the zero-COVID policy by the  Chinese government has further caused a freeze in domestic demand during the  recent period. At the same time, Honor has emerged to pose a direct threat in  the competition for domestic market share. To maintain growth, Xiaomi, OPPO and  Vivo will have to concentrate on overseas expansion while retaining their  domestic market shares. To maintain a loyal group of customers and provide effective  market positioning for their high-end device models, Samsung, Apple and Huawei  have been self-developing chips such as mobile systems-on-a-chip (SOCs). Also,  because these three brands have been able to generate additional values with  in-house components, the other major Chinese brands are now following their  footsteps and are committed to maintaining teams dedicated to chip design. Xiaomi, for example, has developed the mobile SoC Pengpai S1, the image processing chip Pengpai C1,  and the 120W fast-charging chip Pengpai P1.  OPPO, too, has unveiled a discrete image signal processor  (ISP) named MariSilicon X and is  expected to introduce an in-house application processor  (AP) in Q1/2024. As for Vivo, it has launched the V1 and V2 chipsets as  solutions for optimizing the image processing  algorithm of the smartphone camera. Looking at these examples, TrendForce  believes that, while Chinese brands are using in-house chips to raise their  profiles, their more important aim is to strengthen the domestic supply chain as China and the USA are now locked  in an escalating geopolitical competition. Regarding the state of the smartphone market in Q4/2022, the  results from the recent promotional events related to China’s Singles’ Day reveal that smartphone brands have  not been particularly effective in spurring device sales by lowering prices.  Consumer confidence on the whole has been heavily impacted by various economic  headwinds. TrendForce estimates that global smartphone production will total  about 316 million units for Q4/2022,  translating to a quarter-on-quarter growth of 9.3%. A year-on-year comparison  will still show a decline. TrendForce points out that the smartphone market started to show  signs of weakening in Q3/2021. Since then, it has recorded six straight  quarters of year-on-year decline in device production. Demand will eventually  return when the correction of channel inventory is mostly completed, but this  turnaround is expected to occur no earlier than Q2/2023, reckons the firm. 