Phlux secures £4m in seed funding to bring antimonide-based LiDAR sensors to market High-performance  infrared sensor designer Phlux Technology has secured £4m in a  seed funding round led by Octopus Ventures and joined by  Northern Gritstone, the Foresight Williams  Technology Funds and the Innovation Fund, plus UK Government agency Innovate UK  (which, as part of UK Research and Innovation,  provides funding and support for business innovation). A spin-out of  Sheffield University, Phlux has  used its in-depth research into semi-metal element antimony to develop what it  says is a unique, patented approach to infrared sensors to dramatically improve  their performance in light detection & ranging (LiDAR) systems. The new architecture is 10x more sensitive and  with 50% more range compared with equivalent sensors, reducing the cost of  manufacture of LiDAR sensors and opening up mass-market adoption, it is  reckoned. “This innovative  breakthrough is critical to the future direction of transport, communication  and emission monitoring systems,” comments Amy Nommeots-Nomm, deep-tech investor,  Octopus Ventures. “Today, there is market consolidation among the silicon-based  sensor companies, precisely because they can’t solve the problem that Phlux has  cracked, making its potential hugely exciting.” According to the Compound Semiconductor  Applications Catapult, the UK compound semiconductor market was worth about  $8bn in 2020 and will grow to $11bn in 2024 (about  8% of the global market). techUK highlights the country’s strength in  semiconductor design and intellectual property (IP), with 110 design firms  based in the UK. Phlux is based in Sheffield, a center of III-V semiconductor  research, with research and facilities at Sheffield University, and The National Epitaxy Facility, which was  awarded £12m in funding from UK Research and Innovation (UKRI). “The company’s  innovative approach demonstrates how world-beating technology, with the  potential to change entire industries, is emerging from the Sheffield, Leeds  and Manchester triangle,” comments Northern Gritstone’s CEO Duncan Johnson. “Northern  Gritstone exists to support and supercharge businesses like Phlux.” Infrared sensors,  such as those that Phlux is designing, have applications beyond LiDAR in satellite communications and enabling internet in  remote regions, fiber telecoms, autonomous vehicles, gas sensing  and quantum communications. Phlux was recently awarded an Innovate UK  project with QLM, developing sensors for a single-photon LiDAR-based camera that  monitors greenhouse-gas emissions. “Climate control requires very large-scale  deployment of monitoring solutions, which demands low-cost technology and  complete supply chain control of critical components such as sensors,”  says QLM’s CEO Murray Reed. “Phlux’s technology is particularly exciting as it  offers a higher-performing alternative to the current approach and opens up a  new UK supplier with significant potential for us.” Phlux was founded  by CEO Ben White, professor Jo Shien Ng and professor Chee Hing  Tan, who met at Sheffield University where they researched novel semiconductor  materials and devices for infrared detection. Existing infrared sensors based  on indium gallium arsenide (InGaAs) have reached a plateau in terms  of performance. Having studied alternatives for more than 10 years, the  founders identified antimony as a material capable of revolutionizing the LiDAR  sensor market. It opens access to the 1550nm infrared space, offering higher  sensitivity and capacity as it operates in the ‘eye safe’ region of the  electromagnetic spectrum. Well over 1000 times more photons can safely be  launched compared with silicon-compatible emitters, enabling antimony-based  sensors to see further, with greater pixel density at a mass-market cost, it is  reckoned. “Our ambition is  to become the Nvidia of the infrared sensor market, starting off with  delivering the world’s first LiDAR receiver chip using antimony,” says CEO  & co-founder Ben White. “Industry will never achieve full autonomy with LiDAR  if it relies on silicon-based sensors, so our approach will reshape the sensor  market for robotics and self-driving machines,” he adds. “We are delighted to  be spinning Phlux out of Sheffield University at a time when it has ambitious  plans to become a global center of excellence for semiconductor research.” In the first  stage of commercialization Phlux has developed a single-element sensor with what’s  claimed to be world-leading sensitivity that is retrofittable into today’s LiDAR  systems and will be part of the Phyllo series product line. Longer term,  Phlux is building an integrated subsystem and array modules forming a  high-performance sensor toolkit and, over the next year, it will grow its  engineering team in areas such as fabrication, mixed-signal circuit design,  optics and testing. “Increasing  sensor performance whilst driving down cost are key enablers for accelerating  the uptake of higher levels of driving automation and, with this seed funding,  we look forward to seeing Phlux’s sensor technology transition to full  commercialization,” comments Matthew Burke, head of technology ventures at  Williams Advanced Engineering. “Phlux’s  innovative technology has the potential to become the prevailing standard in  the automotive LiDAR systems,” believes Christopher Wiles, investment director  at Foresight Williams Technology Funds. “We look forward to supporting its  entrepreneurial team as they deliver on this ambition.” 