Imec introduces framework to model GaN HEMT and InP HBT RF devices for 5G and 6G At the 68th annual IEEE International  Electron Devices Meeting (IEDM 2022) in San Francisco (3–7 December),  nanoelectronics research center imec of Leuven,  Belgium has presented a Monte Carlo Boltzmann modeling framework  that, for the first time, uses microscopic heat carrier distributions to  predict 3D thermal transport in advanced RF devices intended for 5G and 6G  wireless communication. The results were  presented in two invited papers, by Bjorn Vermeersch on thermal modeling and by  Nadine Collaert on gallium nitride (GaN) and indium phosphide (InP) technologies  for next-generation high-capacity wireless communication, respectively [papers  11.5 and 15.3]. Case studies with  GaN high-electron-mobility transistors (HEMTs) and InP heterojunction bipolar  transistors (HBTs) revealed peak temperature rises up to three times  larger than conventional predictions with bulk material properties. Imec  reckons that the new tool will be useful in guiding optimizations of  next-generation RF devices toward thermally improved designs.  Figure 1. Measured and predicted thermal  resistance versus finger width of two-finger GaN-on-Si HEMTs. GaN- and  InP-based devices have emerged as interesting candidates for 5G millimeter-wave  (mm-wave) and 6G sub-THz mobile front-end applications, respectively, due to  their high output power and efficiency. To optimize these devices for RF  applications and make them cost-effective, much attention is paid to upscaling  the III/V technologies to a silicon platform and making them CMOS compatible.  However, with shrinking feature sizes and rising power levels, self-heating has  become a major reliability concern, potentially limiting further RF device  scaling. “Tuning the  design of GaN- and InP-based devices for optimal electrical performance often  worsens thermal performance at high operating frequencies,” notes Nadine  Collaert, program director of advanced RF at imec. “For GaN-on-Si devices,  for example, we recently achieved tremendous progress in electrical  performance, bringing the power-added efficiencies and output power for the  first time on par with that of GaN-on-silicon carbide (SiC). But  further enlarging device operating frequency will require downsizing the  existing architectures. In these confined multi-layer structures, however, thermal  transport is no longer diffusive, challenging accurate self-heating  predictions,” she adds. “Our novel simulation framework, yielding good matches  with our GaN-on-Si thermal measurements, revealed peak temperature rises up to three times  larger than previously predicted. It will provide guidance in optimizing these RF device layouts early  in the development phase to ensure the right trade-off between electrical and  thermal performance.”  Figure 2. Geometry of InP nanoridge HBT  used in the 3D simulation.  Figure 3. Impact of non-diffusive thermal  transport effects (as captured by imec’s Monte Carlo  simulation) in InP nanoridge HBTs. Such guidance also  proves very valuable for the novel InP HBTs, where imec’s modeling framework  highlights the substantial impact that non-diffusive transport has on  self-heating in complex scaled architectures. For these devices, nanoridge  engineering (NRE) is an interesting heterogeneous integration approach from an  electrical performance point of view. “While the tapered ridge bottoms enable  low defect density within the III-V materials, they however induce a  thermal bottleneck for heat removal towards the substrate,” explains Bjorn  Vermeersch, principal member of technical staff in the thermal modeling and  characterization team at imec. “Our 3D Monte Carlo simulations of NRE InP  HBTs indicate that the ridge topology raises the thermal resistance by over 20%  compared to a hypothetical monolithic mesa of the same height,” he adds. “Our  analyses furthermore highlight the direct impact of the ridge material (e.g.  InP versus InGaAs) on self-heating, providing an additional knob to improve the  designs thermally.” 