Zuken and CSA Catapult optimize power module design tools Zuken, which provides software and solutions for electronic and  electrical engineering, and the Compound Semiconductor Applications (CSA)  Catapult have announced a milestone in their R&D collaboration aimed at  building a development environment for state-of-the-art compound semiconductor  products. Established in 2017 by UK Government agency Innovate UK  (which provides funding and support for business innovation as part of UK  Research and Innovation), CSA Catapult is a not-for-profit organization (headquartered  in Newport, South Wales) focused on accelerating the adoption of compound semiconductors  and on bringing applications to life in four technology areas: power electronics,  RF & microwave, advanced packaging, and photonics. It works across the  UK in a range of industry sectors from automotive to medical, and from digital  communications to aerospace. Collaborating with Zuken on a project to bring a power module  layout from a graphical concept to a 3D model, CSA Catapult has  identified several requirements and optimizations to Zuken’s CR-8000 Design Force  chip, package and PCB co-design software that will provide designers of power electronic  products with the ability to co-develop mechanical and electrical design in  unison. The integration with industry simulation tools enables the  efficient design iteration needed to effectively explore the design envelope  for new compound semiconductor products. As a result of the collaboration, an intuitive function was  created that is used to generate interconnections between chips and copper  layers in a substrate or a printed-circuit board, as well as a function to  export a CAD model in a format compatible with finite-element modelling (FEM)  software. These advanced features will help designers to significantly decrease  the time required to generate a 3D model of the power module  substrate, chip layout, and chip-to-chip as well as chip-to-copper  interconnections. “The creation of a 3D model of the substrate, chip layout  and chip interconnections is an important part of the early-stage power module  design process,” says Dr Alejandro Villarruel Parra, senior power electronics  engineer at CSA Catapult. “Zuken’s advanced design solutions have helped to  provide a preview of the module performance, which in turn makes our  decision-making process faster when several concepts are being compared or  helps to steer the refinement of the module geometry if a concept has already  been selected.” The new capability is included in the 2022 release of CR-8000  Design Force. 