Cambridge’s Rachel Oliver awarded Royal Academy of Engineering Chair in Emerging Technologies Professor Rachel  Oliver of the University of Cambridge’s Department of Materials Science and  Metallurgy has been awarded a Royal Academy of Engineering Chair in Emerging  Technologies. The award is worth £2.5m over ten years to develop  emerging technologies with high potential to deliver economic and social  benefits to the UK. Funded by the UK  Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS), the Chair in  Emerging Technologies scheme aims to identify global research visionaries and  provide them with long-term support, enabling them to focus on strategic  approaches for taking their technology from the bench to the boardroom. Oliver is a Fellow of  Robinson College and director of the Cambridge Centre for Gallium Nitride.  Creating porosity in gallium nitride  (GaN) vastly extends the range of materials properties achievable. By controlling  the porosity, engineers can select the properties they need to create new  device concepts or to improve existing products. Oliver’s aim is to  create a set of materials fabrication processes that control the structure and  properties of porous GaN. Alongside this, she will develop a modelling toolbox  for designing new devices. By developing new devices and embedding porous GaN  in the UK’s compound semiconductor industry, Oliver hopes to drive this  emerging materials platform towards widespread industrial adoption. Potential applications  are wide-ranging. Developing the use of UV LEDs for disinfection  would give healthcare professionals new weapons in the fight against viral  epidemics and antibiotic-resistant bacteria. Work on micro-displays using micro-LEDs  could improve augmented reality (AR)  and virtual reality (VR) headsets.  As well as providing immersive experiences for gamers, this technology could be  used by organizations for more effective online collaboration. By reducing the  need for business travel, the ecological benefits could be significant. “The Academy places  huge importance on supporting excellence in engineering, and often the key to  engineers fulfilling their potential in tackling global challenges is the gift  of time and continuity of support to bring the most disruptive and impactful  ideas to fruition,” says professor Sir Jim McDonald FREng FRSE, president of the Royal Academy  of Engineering. 