Transphorm opens GaN application lab in Shenzhen Transphorm  Inc of Goleta, near Santa Barbara, CA, USA — which designs and manufactures  JEDEC- and AEC-Q101-qualified gallium nitride  (GaN) field-effect transistors (FETs) for high-voltage power conversion —  has opened a new office in Shenzhen, China, which is fully operational and  already serving the firm’s broad customer base in China. As a wholly  foreign-owned enterprise (WFOE), the site will house staff responsible for  enhancing local customer support, sales and marketing efforts. It will also  serve as an application lab for regional customers developing GaN-based  power systems as well as global R&D efforts. The office will be  overseen by Kenny Yim, Transphorm’s current VP of Asia sales, as he also  assumes the role of general manager, China. He will be supported by Chun Hung Ho,  head of applications, Asia, and a seven-year-veteran of Transphorm. “China, Hong Kong  and Southeast Asia house several dynamic industries re-imagining power electronics  through high-performance GaN. Shenzhen also stands as a major electronics  technology hub within China,” says Yim. “Establishing a formal presence in the  city is critical to our growth strategy as our customers look to leverage the  region’s power electronics innovation. Having an application lab  there allows us to easily tap into the near-shore engineering talent pool  while better supporting customers at their own local design centers.” Transphorm’s  GaN device portfolio addresses the power spectrum from 45W to 10kW+, so the  firm supplies to product manufacturers operating in the broadest range of  markets, from adapters and computing to broad industrial and automotive.  Recently announced customer products — 65W power adapters and a medical  energy storage device — were designed and manufactured in the APAC region,  emphasizing the importance of Transphorm expanding its capabilities there. “The power GaN  market is expected to reach US$2bn by 2027, according to research firm Yole  Intelligence. The demand for our GaN products and resources is rising in  tandem,” says Tushar Dhayagude, VP worldwide sales. “We’re committed to  helping our customers achieve their goals and understand that this commitment  calls for dedicated field support. With that in mind, Shenzhen proved to be the  optimal place to open our formal Transphorm APAC facility.” Yim has more  than 25 years of experience in the semiconductor industry, including more  than a decade working for Transphorm heading up sales in the APAC region. He  and his Asia team are credited with helping Transphorm develop customer  relationships in markets such as power adapters, data centers,  gaming, blockchain computing, and renewable energy. Yim previously held sales  positions with global semiconductor companies Cree Inc (now Wolfspeed) and  International Rectifier prior to its acquisition by Infineon. “Kenny’s  contributions over the past ten years at Transphorm have been instrumental in  our overall customer adoption to date,” comments co-founder & president  Primit Parikh. “His efforts in Asia, China in particular, have enabled us to  pioneer the adoption of GaN across the power spectrum from low power to high  power, including in key patented solutions such as the totem-pole PFC and a  variety of other power topologies.” 