ST to qualify Soitec’s silicon carbide substrate technology over next 18 months STMicroelectronics of Geneva, Switzerland and engineered  substrate manufacturer Soitec of Bernin, near Grenoble, France have  announced the next stage of their cooperation on silicon carbide  (SiC) substrates, with the qualification of Soitec’s SiC substrate technology  by ST planned over the next 18 months. The goal is the adoption  by ST of Soitec’s SmartSiC technology for its future 200mm substrate  manufacturing, feeding its devices and modules manufacturing business, with  volume production expected in the midterm. SmartSiC is a proprietary Soitec technology that uses Soitec’s proprietary  SmartCut technology to split a thin layer of a high-quality SiC donor wafer and  bond it on top of a low-resistivity handle polySiC wafer. The engineered  substrate then improves device performance and manufacturing yields. The  prime-quality SiC donor wafer can be reused multiple times, significantly  reducing the overall energy consumption required to produce it. Compared with silicon, silicon carbide’s intrinsic properties  provide superior performance and efficiency, allowing more efficient power conversion,  lighter and more compact designs, and overall system-design cost savings – all  key parameters and factors in high-growth power applications such as electric  mobility and industrial processes. Transitioning from 150mm to 200mm wafers  will enable a substantial capacity increase, with almost twice the useful area  for manufacturing integrated circuits, delivering 1.8–1.9 times as many  working chips per wafer. “The transition to 200mm SiC wafers will bring substantial  advantages to our automotive and industrial customers as they accelerate the  transition toward electrification of their systems and products. It is  important in driving economies of scale as product volumes ramp,” says Marco  Monti, president Automotive and Discrete Group, STMicroelectronics. “We have  chosen a vertically integrated model to maximize our know-how across the full  manufacturing chain, from high-quality substrates to large-scale front- and  back-end production. The goal of the technology cooperation with Soitec is to  continue to improve our manufacturing yields and quality,” he adds. “The automotive industry is facing major disruption with the  advent of electric vehicles. Our cutting-edge SmartSiC technology, which  adapts our unique SmartCut process to silicon carbide semiconductors, will  play a key role in accelerating their adoption,” believes Soitec’s chief  operating officer Bernard Aspar. “The combination of Soitec’s SmartSiC  substrates with STMicroelectronics’ industry-leading silicon carbide technology and expertise  is a game-changer for automotive chip manufacturing that will set new  standards.” 