Midsummer signs four new LOIs for delivery of extra 224MW of solar panels Midsummer AB of Järfälla, near Stockholm, Sweden – a provider of  turnkey production lines as well as flexible, lightweight copper indium gallium  diselenide (CIGS) thin-film solar panels for building-integrated photovoltaics  (BIPV)  – has signed new letters of intent (LOI) with four Swedish and  international roof material producers, house manufacturers and solar cell installers for the pre-sale of 224MW of solar panels. Previously,  on 5 November, Midsummer announced the  signing of LOIs with six Swedish and international industry players for a total  of 107MW of solar panels. This brings the number of offtake agreements to ten in November for a  collective 331MW of solar panels. Together  with previously announced deals with three Italian roof and building companies for  15MW per year for five years (totaling 75MW), the cumulative number  of offtake agreements is 13, with a combined volume of more than 400MW of solar  panels. “Many large  industry players around Europe are lining up for our products as they see a big  market for our discreet and sustainable thin-film panels,” says CEO Sven  Lindström. “It is our defined strategy to enter into these offtake agreements  to ensure sale of our products parallel with us scaling up our production  capacity.” The signed  LOIs equate to 406MW of solar panels to be supplied in the coming 3-6 years, compared with the firm’s annual production capacity of  2MW at the existing Swedish factory and 50MW at the Italian factory in Bari (due to enter  production in 2023). Midsummer  also aims to establish a new factory in Järfälla, with an annual production capacity of 20MW initially and 200MW eventually. The long-term goal is an annual  production capacity of at least 1000MW by 2030, which would require several new  mega-factories around Europe. Midsummer’s board recently appointed DNB Markets as sole financial  advisor to explore possibilities to raise further capital through an issue of  convertible bonds, in fourth-quarter 2022 at the earliest (subject  to shareholder approval). Proceeds would be used to redeem the firm’s outstanding  SEK200m senior unsecured green bonds maturing in April 2023, as well as to  further expand production capacity and growth. 