OpenLight makes available PDK for first unified electronic and photonic design platform To streamline the end-to-end design of photonic integrated circuits (PICs) and meet future demands  of applications including datacom, telecom, LiDAR, healthcare, high-performance  computing (HPC), artificial intelligence  (AI) and optical computing, OpenLight of  Santa Barbara, CA, USA has announced the general availability of its  process design kit (PDK). OpenLight launched as an independent company in June, introducing  the world’s first open silicon photonics  platform with integrated lasers to improve the performance, power efficiency and reliability of  designs. The firm says that  it is already seeing success among customers with its first 400G and 800G  reference designs with integrated  lasers made available this summer. The OpenLight PDK is now ready to be used with the Synopsys  photonic IC design solution, and  includes indium phosphide (InP)  active optical elements on-chip that can be directly used by Synopsys  OptoCompiler and simulated with the Synopsys OptSim photonic simulator,  providing a superior method to create PICs with optical amplifiers, on-chip  lasers, and high-speed, low-loss modulators tailored to design requirements. Customers can access an extensive library of tested and proven  photonic components to enhance first-time PIC success and deliver more reliable  design and fabrication. The technology has passed qualification and reliability  tests on Tower Semiconductor’s silicon photonics  production flow (PH18DA). “We strongly believe in the ability of OpenLight’s technology  implemented in Tower’s foundry platform to push the envelope and enable the  next generation of photonic IC  products,” comments Dr Marco  Racanelli, senior VP & general manager of Tower Semiconductor’s Analog  business unit. “With PDKs now  available to the world, mutual customers can benefit from access to this  advanced technology through an open foundry model,” he adds. “Results of PICs  fabricated to date are impressive and the PDK announced here will speed up  further PIC innovation from the industry as designers confidently develop and  bring to market new products faster with on-chip lasers and optical  amplifiers.” Synopsys supports OpenLight’s PDK through Synopsys OptoCompiler,  bridging the gap between photonic experts and IC designers to make photonic  designs as productive as electronic designs. Synopsys OptoCompiler is a  complete end-to-end design, verification and signoff solution for photonic ICs.  The solution combines specific capabilities for photonic design with  industry-proven electronic design methods in a unique, unified platform to make  photonic IC design accessible, fast  and flexible. “The combination of Synopsys’ industry-leading photonic IC design solution and OpenLight’s  integrated laser technology in one cohesive platform empowers teams to design  real-world PICs in a way that has never been done before,” says Aveek Sarkar,  VP of engineering at Synopsys. “We look forward to supporting mutual customers  together with Tower and OpenLight to accelerate adoption of silicon photonics with integrated lasers,” he  adds. “Until now, there has never been an open silicon photonics platform  with active on-chip optical elements,”  says OpenLight’s chief operating officer  Dr Thomas Mader. “We are at the vanguard of discovering the  extent to which integrated lasers can reduce barriers to entry and transform  the way teams design PICs for a large variety of applications,” he adds. “With  the general release of the PDK, OpenLight is also reducing barriers to entry on  the design side, enabling customers to quickly design PICs and get to market  and production faster. This is just the beginning, and we expect to see  continued scale, speed and power advancements from our platform.” 