Kyocera develops smallest GaN laser chip mass produced from silicon substrate Kyocera Corp of Kyoto, Japan has  developed a new thin-film process technology for making unique silicon  substrates for gallium nitride (GaN)-based micro-light sources (with  a side measuring less than 100μm), including short-cavity lasers and micro-LEDs. Because they offer  key performance advantages such as higher definition, smaller size and lighter  weight, micro-light sources are considered to be essential to  next-generation automotive displays, wearable smart glasses,  communication equipment, and medical devices. TrendForce forecasts that the market for micro-LED  chips alone will rise at a compounded annual growth rate (CAGR) of about  241% to $2.7bn by 2026. GaN-based  light-source devices, both micro-LED and laser, have typically been fabricated  on sapphire and GaN substrates. Conventional processes involve forming a thin  GaN device layer for the light source directly onto the sapphire substrate  by heating it to a high temperature (1000°C or more) in a controlled gas atmosphere.  The device layer has to be then removed (peeled) from the substrate to create a  GaN-based micro-light source device. Despite rising demand for smaller  devices, however, three separate challenges threaten the ability of this  process to achieve miniaturization targets in the near future: Kyocera has developed the new  process technology at its Research Institute for Advanced Materials and Devices  in Kyoto. First, it grows a GaN layer on silicon substrate, which is available  in high volumes at a low cost. The GaN layer is then masked with a non-growing  material that features an opening in the center. After this, when a GaN layer  is formed on the silicon substrate, GaN nuclei grow over the opening in the  mask. The GaN layer, which is a growing nucleus, has many defects at the  initial stage of growth; but, by forming the GaN layer laterally, high-quality  GaN layers with low defect density can be created, and devices can be  fabricated successfully from this low-defect region of the GaN layer.  Kyocera  lists advantages of the new process as: Applications  of micro-light sources are listed as: Kyocera says that it will offer a  wide range of platform, substrate and process technologies to bring high-quality,  low-cost micro-light sources to market in the near future, as it aims to  transform next-generation display and laser markets using the new platform. 