Scantinel raises €10m in Series A funding from PhotonDelta, Scania and ZEISS Scantinel Photonics GmbH of Ulm, Germany,  which was founded in 2019 and is developing frequency-modulated  continuous wave (FMCW) sensing technology for light detection &  ranging (LiDAR) solutions in autonomous mobility and industrial applications,  has secured a €10m extended Series A round of funding backed by PhotonDelta  and existing investors Scania Growth Capital and ZEISS Ventures. Scantinel  will use the funding to roll out its FMCW LiDAR devices to customers. LiDAR has more accuracy and precision in  detecting objects and mapping than other solutions such as radar and RGB  cameras. It is also more immune to interference. This makes it suitable for  enabling autonomous driving, as well as within logistics — such as conveyor belts and autonomous cranes. However,  LiDAR devices have previously been too large, expensive or difficult to produce  to be practical alternatives. By using photonic chips, Scantinel has  developed its FMCW LiDAR solution, which has the power, affordability and mass  production scalability to enable LiDAR to have broad application across  industry and mobility. The technology delivers a detection range beyond 300m  with superior resolution and solid-state scanning. Scantinel has signed a  number of partnership agreements with major global automotive, mobility and  industrial companies. The investment by Netherlands-based  PhotonDelta marks another step in its mission to build a European photonics  ecosystem that researches, designs, develops and manufactures solutions with  integrated photonics technology. In April, PhotonDelta secured €1.1bn in public  and private investment to scale up production, build 200 startups, create new  applications for photonic chips, and develop infrastructure and talent. “Photonic chips are a next-generation chip  technology which will bring new innovations like FMCW LiDAR on chip to life,”  comments PhotonDelta’s CEO Ewit Roos. “We see the investment in Scantinel as a  perfect fit to grow and strengthen our photonics ecosystem,” he adds. “We are looking forward to maximizing the  collaborations and benefits from PhotonDelta’s leading integrated photonics  ecosystem,” comments Andy Zott, managing director & co-founder of  Scantinel. “The investments from our existing  investors ZEISS Ventures and Scania Growth Capital, along with our new  investor PhotonDelta, will accelerate our product development together with our  customers and partners,” says Dr Michael Richter, managing director  of Scantinel.  Since they integrate photonic functions  into microchips to create smaller, faster and more energy-efficient devices, photonic  integrated circuits (PICs) can sense, process and transmit data much more  effectively than their electronic counterparts. As with traditional chips, the  production process is carried out using automatic wafer-scale technology,  allowing the chips to be mass-produced and hence reducing costs. Crucially,  PICs can overcome the expected limit to Moore’s Law and will also help to  tackle energy sustainability issues. The biggest challenge in the automotive  sector in the near future lies in the availability of affordable sensors to  enable autonomous driving at various stages. With the advantages of photonic  chips (weight, speed, cost), the possibilities for self-driving transport are  increasing. This has positive implications for road safety and lost travel time  is made available again, notes Scantinel. Photonics can also mean a lot for  battery management in electric vehicles and the control of traditional  cars. For the aircraft industry, the emphasis is on sensor systems, adds Scantinel. 