Silanna UV launches SF1 series of UV-C LEDs, highlighting nitrate sensing applications UV-C LED maker Silanna UV of  Brisbane, Australia says that its newly developed ultraviolet LEDs for  nitrate sensing applications promise cleaner and safer drinking water free from  nitrate contamination. The SF1 series of LEDs leverage the firm’s patented  short-period superlattice (SPSL) technology for the challenging 230-260nm UV  range (far UV-C and deep UV-C). Silanna now provides a complete  reference design for a nitrate detector based on this technology. Nitrate contamination of drinking water is a growing threat around  the world, with nitrates from agricultural, industrial and natural biological  processes increasingly contaminating water supplies as populations grow and  expand. Detection of nitrates traditionally relied on an expensive process in  which broadband light generated by a UV lamp is passed through spectroscopy to  extract the far UV-C wavelength  needed for sensing. Silanna says that its SF1 series of LEDs can provide a far more  cost-effective, compact, reliable, low-power alternative to traditional methods  of nitrate detection. In particular, SF1 series  UV-C emitters with a peak wavelength under 235nm and a full-width half-maximum (FWHM) of 10nm are an ideal  candidate for nitrate sensing applications, the firm claims.  As well as nitrate detection, Silanna’s SF1 and SN3 UV LEDs are also suitable for sterilization,  water and gas sensing, instrumentation, and medical analyzers. To help users evaluate this new technology and develop products  based on it, Silanna has created a nitrate sensing reference design featuring its SF1 series LEDs. This module rapidly and  accurately measures the nitrate content of a liquid sample. The microcontroller-based reference design features a capacitive  touch display, safety interlock, and  compensates for thermal effects to maintain accuracy and avoid warm-up delay.  The UV-C LED package’s built-in  30-degree parabolic lens eliminates the need for secondary optics, making the  system even more compact and cost effective. The module requires less than a  second to make a measurement (not only saving time but also extending component  lifetime to over 100,000 measurements) and the concentration of the nitrate is  measured at a resolution of 0.01mg/L-N according to estimates. 