ITRI introduces high-resolution full-color micro-LED display for AR glasses Taiwan’s Industrial Technology Research Institute  (ITRI) has introduced the High Resolution Full-Color Micro-LED Display for  AR Glasses, which aims to assist panel makers and other industry players  to upgrade their technology, expand their micro-LED applications, meet market  demand and secure business opportunities in next-generation augmented reality  (AR) display products for immersive experiences in the metaverse. The High Resolution Full-Color Micro LED Display for AR Glasses  has four key features: The design adopts heterogeneous integration technology similar to  semiconductor processes to create micro-displays with wide color gamut by  bringing micro-LED, CMOS and quantum-dot color conversion layers together  within a single panel.  Picture:   ITRI's micro-LED display. The High Resolution Full-Color Micro LED Display for AR Glasses  is sold as system-oriented industry integration and fabrication platform  services, and is available globally for transfer. “ITRI’s High Resolution Full-Color Micro LED Display for AR Glasses  has high commercial value and can enhance user experience due to its high  resolution, high brightness, device compatibility, compact size and low power consumption,”  says Dr Shih-Chieh Chang, general director  of ITRI’s Electronic and Optoelectronic System Research Laboratories. “This  high-resolution micro-LED will help leading global display players to  capitalize on the vast range of emerging micro-LED applications,” he adds. “ITRI  has assisted manufacturers in pilot production and technology transfers, which  have laid the foundation for developing in-vehicle displays and next-gen XR  glasses.” To introduce its micro-LED technology into augmented reality  applications and deliver it from lab to market, ITRI founded an alliance in  2016 to integrate the industry chain horizontally. The alliance connects  about 50 industry chain suppliers in advanced materials, semiconductor  processes, and precision equipment. It provides comprehensive upstream to  downstream solutions to fulfill industry needs for the various stages of  verification, development, and IP licensing. Micro-LEDs are attracting attention for wearable electronics,  lighting and biomedicine because of their high efficiency, small form factor,  and low power consumption. Wearable micro-LED displays have thin,  lightweight and unbreakable features, enabling the application of displays on  curvilinear surfaces. Good color purity and high brightness with low power consumption,  high-resolution quantum-dot (QD) array patterning, and ultrathin and ultrasmall  form factors make QD-based micro-LEDs promising for flexible and wearable  electronics. Micro-LEDs are suitable for advanced display applications such as  smartphones, wearable watches, micro-projectors, AR/MR displays, automotive  heads-up displays, ultra-high-definition (UHD) (>4K resolution)  televisions, and large-scale monitors including outdoor TVs, sports and  advertisement signage. The manufacturing process for the High Resolution Full-Color  Micro-LED Display for AR Glasses requires semiconductor-grade device  processing, micron-grade accuracy of assembly and a highly accurate yet rapid  testing methodology. These steps usually require an upgrade or improvement in  equipment, operation, logistics, materials and training. The micro-LED display manufacturing process differs from the  traditional LED manufacturing process in requiring a high-efficiency micron-grade  LED process and heterogeneous bonding technology with high precision and high  resolution on an active backplane. The overall process requires additional  semiconductor processes such as high-precision photolithography, chemical-mechanical  planarization (CMP), plating and high-precision alignment wafer bonding.  Compared with the Class 1000 cleanroom processing used by traditional  LEDs, a micro-LED lab needs a Class 10 cleanroom to heterogeneously  integrate all components without concerns for particle contamination. 