ZSW’s perovskite-CIGS tandem solar module reaches 21%+ efficiency Germany’s ZSW (Zentrum für Sonnenenergie- und  Wasserstoff-Forschung — or Center for Solar Energy and Hydrogen Research  — Baden-Württemberg) has  achieved 21.1% solar energy conversion efficiency with a tandem module  comprising copper indium gallium  diselenide (CIGS)  and perovskite materials. Not only are these thin-film-based modules highly  efficient, they can also be light and flexible. Modules made of lightweight,  pliable materials open doors to many applications that remain closed to the  standard rigid modules found in solar parks, says ZSW. After decades of research, the efficiency of the prevailing  silicon cells is approaching the practical limit of about 27%. As it stands,  only tandem solar module technology promises further increases to well over  30%, through layering on top of each other different materials that absorb  different wavelengths of the solar spectrum, collectively making better use of  the width of the solar spectrum than a single solar cell. Metal-organic perovskite materials holds great promise for tandem  solar modules. “Some compounds in this class of materials exhibit excellent  optical and electronic properties and are abundantly and inexpensively  available on Earth,” says Dr Jan-Philipp Becker, head of ZSW’s  Photovoltaics: Materials Research department. “With their high optical energy  bandgap, compounds in the top solar module are able to use the high-energy  range of the solar spectrum very efficiently. At the same time, they allow a  considerable share of the spectrum’s low-energy range to pass through to the  bottom solar module,” he adds. Conventional silicon PV cells would appear to be the obvious  choice for the bottom solar module. However, an even more interesting  proposition is to use thin-film technologies exclusively. The bottom module can  also be made of perovskite or of CIGS, which is the case in ZSW’s module. CIGS  is a mix of materials – copper, indium and gallium vapor-deposited onto a rigid  or flexible substrate in a selenium atmosphere. The institute’s experts and  industry partners had developed this technology and ramped it up for mass  production in earlier projects. CIGS’s spectral absorption can be tailored to a  perfect fit for the tandem composite. 