BluGlass demos feasible reliability of GaN laser diodes BluGlass Ltd of Silverwater, Australia  – which has developed proprietary low-temperature, low-hydrogen remote-plasma  chemical vapor deposition (RPCVD)  technology – says that its gallium nitride  (GaN) laser diodes have achieved  feasible reliability, demonstrating more than 500 hours of continuous operation with stable optical  power and voltage in reliability testing. BluGlass adds that the lasers maintained good  performance during testing at 20-25°C, demonstrating light output  with less than 20% degradation - a key commercial standard for laser diodes. Reliability testing of these lasers is  ongoing. Reliability feasibility is a critical  prerequisite milestone for beta production and commercial product launches. BluGlass says  that these performance metrics enable it to increase its engagement with  potential customers awaiting alpha and beta products, and indicate that the  design is ready for increased volume. Improvements in reliability are directly  attributable to enhanced metals, facets and bonds, completed by BluGlass’  contract manufacturers. Newer iterations with further improvements to the four  key components of laser diodes are currently progressing through BluGlass’  supply chain, and the firm is  working to increase manufacturing quality and yields with its Silicon Valley production facility and team. “Demonstrating reliable laser diodes  is a significant milestone, reflecting the suitability of our lasers for use in  a vast number of applications,” says president Jim Haden. “Commercial  reliability is not a one-size fits all approach, varying greatly depending on  the application. At one end of the spectrum, we have single-use applications  such as pyrotechnics, which require one-shot reliability and good ‘shelf-life.’  At the other end of the spectrum are very sophisticated space-based and  industrial applications, which often require reliability of more than 10,000 hours and even years of operation. Many applications,  including medical and scientific applications, require less than 1000 hours’ reliability,” he adds. “Reliability testing is ongoing and, with our  recent achievements and progress, we are moving toward a fixed beta design.  This reliability milestone also enables us to increase our engagement with  customers who are eagerly awaiting products to meet unmet market needs,”  continues Haden. “Encouragingly, we have achieved these results  with older iterations made by our contract manufacturers. We expect current  iterations featuring new epitaxy designs and enhanced processing through our  Silicon Valley fab will demonstrate improved yield,  reliability and performance as we continue to refine our laser diodes ahead of product launches.” 