UK Government deems Nexperia’s acquisition of Newport Wafer Fab a “risk to national security” Pursuant to section 26 of the National Security and  Investment Act 2021, the UK Government’s Secretary of State for Business,  Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS) has made a final order after its review  of the acquisition on 5 July 2021 by Netherlands-based  Nexperia BV of an additional 86% of the shares of Newport  Wafer Fab (NWF, now Nexperia Newport Ltd, or NNL), taking its stake  to 100%. The order determines that the acquisition constitutes a trigger  event under section 8(2)(c) of the Act. Specifically, the acquisition by  Nexperia (a subsidiary of China-based Wingtech  Technology Co Ltd) presents a risk to national security  relating to: As a “necessary and proportionate” measure to mitigate the risk to  national security, the UK Government order has the effect of requiring Nexperia  to sell at least 86% of NNL within a specified period and by following a  specified process. Nexperia says that, on 25 May, it learned that the UK  Government’s Secretary of State for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy  was exercising his statutory power to retroactively ‘call in’ its acquisition  of NWF. “The Secretary of State exercised this power under the new National  Security and Investment Act (which became effective in January 2022), after  previous reviews by BEIS and the UK’s National Security Advisor, both of which  found no substantive national security concerns that should give cause to block  the acquisition,” says Nexperia. Nexperia responds that it is shocked by the UK Government’s final  order, and does not accept the national security concerns raised. To fully  address the Government’s concerns, Nexperia had offered to BEIS’s Investment  Security Unit that it would not conduct the compound semiconductor  activities of potential concern and that it would provide the UK Government  with direct control and participation in the management of Newport, but that  its proposal has been “entirely ignored”. “The UK Government chose not to enter into a meaningful dialogue  with Nexperia or even visit the Newport site,” says Nexperia. “More than 500  employees in Newport also raised their own significant concerns about such a  divestment – the Government has chosen not to listen to them and instead taken  this decision which puts the livelihoods of them and their families, as well as  more than £100m of taxpayers’ money, completely unnecessarily at risk. Nexperia  will now challenge the order and will do everything possible to keep the  factory and protect its employees in South Wales,” it adds. “We will appeal to overturn this divestment order to protect the  over 500 jobs at Newport,” says Nexperia UK country manager Toni  Versluijs. “This decision sends a clear signal that the UK is closed for  business,” he adds. “It is legally wrong – being disproportionate given the remedies  Nexperia has proposed. It is wrong for the employees of Nexperia Newport –  creating further uncertainty. It is wrong for the UK semiconductor industry –  taking out a strong player. It is wrong for the UK economy – undermining its  semiconductor industry as we brought new production to Newport. It is wrong for  the UK taxpayer – who could now be faced with a bill of over £100m for the  fallout from this decision,” continues Versluijs. “We are hugely disappointed by this extraordinary U-turn, and the  greater uncertainty that it creates for our employees and their families in  Wales whilst also not recognizing the commitment of our 1000 employees in  Manchester. As a globally successful European-centred company, with our roots  at Royal Dutch Philips and proud 90-year track record in Britain, it is  astonishing that our employees face such jeopardy and hundreds of millions of  pounds of foreign direct investment are not welcome,” he adds. “We rescued an investment-starved company from collapse. We have  repaid taxpayer loans, secured jobs, wages, bonuses and pensions, and agreed to  spend more than £80m on equipment upgrades since early 2021. Those who sold the  business to us agreed that it was the only viable solution, and the deal was  publicly welcomed by the Welsh Government,” notes Versluijs. “We made every  effort to engage, to explain our business and made bold proposals for our  operations in Newport and its management to nullify any potential fears about  possible national security risks. We have been especially disappointed that we  were denied the opportunity to discuss these with the Secretary of State himself  or any of his political or Private Office team.” Nexperia says that it will prioritise looking after the impacted  employees at Nexperia Newport and reducing the negative impact on its  customers. 