Wolfspeed prices private offering of convertible senior notes to raise $1.525bn Wolfspeed Inc of Durham, NC, USA – which makes silicon carbide  materials as well as silicon carbide (SiC) and gallium nitride (GaN)  power-switching & RF semiconductor devices – has announced the pricing of its private offering  of convertible senior notes due 2029 (announced on 16 November) to raise $1525m. The notes are  unsecured, senior obligations of Wolfspeed, bearing interest at a rate of  1.875% per year, payable semi-annually in arrears on 1 June and 1 December  of each year (beginning on 1 June  2023). The notes will mature on 1 December  2029, unless earlier repurchased, redeemed or converted. The initial  conversion rate is 8.4118 shares of Wolfspeed’s common stock per $1000 of notes (equivalent to an initial  conversion price of about $118.88 per share). Conversions will be settled in  cash, shares of Wolfspeed’s common stock  or a combination thereof, at Wolfspeed’s election. The initial conversion price  represents a conversion premium of about 35% over the last reported sale price  of $88.06 per share on the New York  Stock Exchange on 16 November. The size of  the private offering was increased from the initial $1300m. In addition,  Wolfspeed has granted the initial purchasers an option to purchase (for  settlement within a 13-day period from, and including, the date on which the  notes are first issued) up to an additional $225m of the notes. Subject to the  satisfaction of customary closing conditions, the sale of the notes to the  initial purchasers is expected to settle on 21 November,  and result in net proceeds of about $1497.5m (or $1718.6m, if the initial  purchasers exercise their option to purchase additional notes in full) after  deducting the initial purchasers’ discount and estimated offering expenses  payable by Wolfspeed. Wolfspeed  intends to use about $238.7m of the net proceeds to fund the cost of entering  into privately negotiated capped call  transactions. The remainder will be used for general corporate purposes. If the  initial purchasers exercise their option to purchase additional notes, then  Wolfspeed intends to use part of the additional net proceeds to fund the cost  of entering into additional capped call  transactions. The cap price  of the capped call transactions will  initially be $202.5380 per share (a premium of 130% over the last reported sale  price of $88.06 per share) and is subject to certain adjustments under the  terms of the capped call transactions. The capped call transactions are expected generally  to reduce the potential dilution to Wolfspeed’s common stock upon any conversion of the notes and/or offset any  potential cash payments that Wolfspeed is required to make in excess of the principal  amount of the converted notes, as the case may be, upon conversion of the notes.  If, however, the market price per share of Wolfspeed’s common stock (as measured under the terms of the  capped call transactions) exceeds  the cap price of the capped call  transactions, there would nevertheless be dilution and/or there would not be an  offset of such potential cash payments, in each case, to the extent that such  market price exceeds the cap price of the capped call  transactions. 