BorgWarner investing $500m in Wolfspeed’s financing transaction Wolfspeed Inc of Durham,  NC, USA – which makes silicon carbide materials as well as  silicon carbide (SiC) and gallium nitride (GaN) power-switching &  RF semiconductor devices – has  announced a multi-year strategic partnership in which BorgWarner Inc of Auburn Hills, MI, USA (which  provides sustainable mobility solutions for the vehicle market) will invest  $500m in its financing transaction, in exchange for being entitled to purchase  up to $650m of silicon carbide  devices annually as BorgWarner’s requirements increase. “Silicon carbide-based power electronics play an increasingly important  role for our customers as our electric vehicle  business continues to accelerate,” notes BorgWarner’s president & CEO Frédéric  Lissalde. “This agreement helps ensure that BorgWarner will have a reliable  supply of high-quality silicon carbide  devices, which are significant to the company’s inverter growth plans. Building  upon BorgWarner’s world-class Viper power switches  and inverter technology, we are excited about the opportunity to work jointly  with Wolfspeed, the leader in silicon carbide,  on the potential development of the next generation of silicon carbide products,” he adds. “Our  relationship with Wolfspeed will drive innovation, accelerate the global  transition to electric vehicles, and  further BorgWarner’s vision for a clean, energy-efficient world.” BorgWarner’s Charging Forward strategy  targets $4.5bn of electric vehicle  revenue for 2025, up from less than $350m in 2021. Based on new business awards  and acquisitions announced as of the firm’s third-quarter earnings release,  BorgWarner believes it is already on track to achieve about $4bn of electric vehicle revenue by 2025. “BorgWarner has been a strong partner with  Wolfspeed for many years, and we are pleased to secure the investment from them  which will be used to support our capacity expansion efforts and ensure we have  a steady supply of product for their customers,” says Wolfspeed’s president  & CEO Gregg Lowe. “This agreement, combined with our most recent  announcement of a multi-billion-dollar materials expansion in North Carolina, confirms the industry  transition from silicon to silicon carbide  is well underway.” At its Investor Day in October, Wolfspeed  outlined a multi-year $6.5bn capacity expansion effort that included the  installation of additional tools at its 200mm Mohawk Valley fab and the construction of a 445-acre silicon carbide materials facility in North Carolina, which will expand the firm’s  existing materials capacity by more than 10x. The first phase of construction  is due to be complete by the end of fiscal-year 2024. 