Wolfspeed raising $1.3bn in private offering Wolfspeed Inc of Durham, NC, USA – which makes silicon carbide materials  as well as silicon carbide (SiC) and gallium nitride (GaN)  power-switching & RF semiconductor devices – is offering, subject to market conditions and other  factors, $1300m of its convertible senior notes  due 2029 in a private offering to persons reasonably believed to be qualified  institutional buyers (pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended). In addition,  Wolfspeed expects to grant the initial purchasers an option to purchase (for settlement within a 13-day period from,  and including, the date on which the notes are first issued) up to an  additional $200m of the notes. The notes are  unsecured, senior obligations of Wolfspeed, and interest will be payable  semi-annually in arrears. They will be convertible into cash, shares of  Wolfspeed’s common stock, or a  combination thereof, at Wolfspeed’s election. The interest rate, initial  conversion rate, repurchase or redemption rights and other terms of the notes  are to be determined upon pricing of the offering by negotiations between  Wolfspeed and the initial purchasers. Wolfspeed  intends to use part of the net proceeds to fund the cost of entering into privately  negotiated capped call transactions with  one or more of the initial purchasers of the notes or their affiliates and/or  other financial institutions. The remainder will be used for general corporate  purposes. If the initial purchasers exercise their option to purchase  additional notes, then Wolfspeed intends to use part of the additional net  proceeds to fund the cost of entering into additional capped call transactions. The capped call transactions are expected to cover (subject to anti-dilution adjustments  substantially similar to those applicable to the notes) the number of shares of  Wolfspeed’s common stock that will  initially underlie the notes. The capped call transactions are expected generally  to reduce the potential dilution to Wolfspeed’s common stock upon any conversion of the notes and/or offset any  potential cash payments that Wolfspeed is required to make in excess of the  principal amount of the converted notes, as the case may be, upon conversion of  the notes. If, however, the market price per share of Wolfspeed’s common stock (as  measured under the terms of the capped call  transactions) exceeds the cap price of the capped call  transactions, there would nevertheless be dilution and/or there would not be an  offset of such potential cash payments, in each case, to the extent that such  market price exceeds the cap price of the capped call  transactions. 