Navitas’ GaNFast power ICs used in Motorola X30 Pro’s 125W fast charger Navitas Semiconductor of Torrance, CA, USA says that its next-generation GaNFast  power ICs have been selected for the  ‘in-box’ 125W charger of Motorola’s latest ﬂagship smartphone (the X30 Pro), providing a charge from 1% to 50%  in just 7 minutes. The X30 Pro is said to  be the world’s ﬁrst to feature a 200MP main camera, and has a Snapdragon 8+ Gen 1  SoC, plus a 6.7-in OLED display with 144Hz refresh rate. To support this  performance, the X30 Pro has a  4610mAhr battery, and 125W ultra-fast wired charging. High-speed GaNFast power ICs  enable the lightweight 138g ultra-fast charger to measure only 55.6mm x 55.7mm x 28.4mm  (88cc) and achieve 1.42W/cc power density,  enhancing portability. GaNFast ICs  integrate GaN power and drive, plus control, protection and sensing to enable  up to 3x faster charging with up to 40% energy saving  in only half size and weight, compared with legacy silicon solutions. In this  charger, two NV6134A GaN ICs are  used in CrCM boost power factor correction (PFC)  and HFQR DC-DC topologies. The 125W GaN charger is designed by China-based Aohai Technology speciﬁcally  for the Motorola X30 Pro. “Navitas  has always been a trust-worthy partner,” comments Cuisi Kuang, senior VP at Aohai. “Navitas’ GaNFast power ICs are fast and reliable, easy-to-use,  and we can complete our R&D with a faster speed and higher success rate,” he adds. “By working hand-in-hand with Navitas and Aohai Technology, we are  able to utilize GaN and speed up the charging capability of Motorola’s  smartphones to a new level,” comments Jin Chen,  general manager of Smartphone  business unit, Lenovo China. “We  look forward to collaborating further with Navitas and Aohai Technology, to  break more records in charging speed, and offer a convenient and  ultra-fast-charging experience,” he adds. “This time, Motorola, Navitas and Aohai Technology’s new  collaboration reached a new, benchmark 125W fast-charging solution on the new  X30 Pro,” notes Charles (Yingjie)  Zha, VP & general manager of  Navitas China: “Navitas will continue to push the innovation of GaN technology  to empower Motorola’s charging roadmap.” 