Lumentum’s high-speed DMLs to be used in POET’s 400G FR4 transmit optical engines POET Technologies Inc of  Toronto, Ontario, Canada — a designer and developer of the POET  Optical Interposer and photonic integrated circuits (PICs) for the  data-center and telecom markets — is to use high-speed directly modulated laser (DML) technology from Lumentum Holdings Inc of San Jose, CA, USA in  its transmit optical engines to enable high-volume, low-power and  cost-efficient 400G, 800G and 1.6T pluggable transceivers for hyperscale data centers. Working with Lumentum, POET expects to start sampling the 400G FR4  transmit optical engines with  integrated drivers in first-half 2023 and production by second-half 2023. The  400G FR4 optical engines are  architected as photonic chiplets and will be the industry’s first  implementation of DMLs with flip-chip integration on an optical interposer at these data rates, POET says. With the small size and  design of POET’s optical engines,  customers will have the flexibility to design 400G, 800G and 1.6T pluggable  transceivers using the same 400G FR4 chiplets. “The majority of the 400G transceivers in the market today use either  externally modulated lasers or silicon photonics  combined with external lasers. These solutions require multiple components and  involve several cumbersome and costly active alignments,” notes POET’s chairman  & CEO Suresh Venkatesan. “POET has a significant opportunity to disrupt the  market with a highly integrated solution with all-passive alignments and  monolithically integrated waveguides and multiplexers, which translates to  lower cost, power and size benefits to our customers,” he adds. “With the continued deployment of 400G, plus 800G on the horizon  in hyperscale data centers, there is  a need for laser technologies that lower power consumption  and cost and are easier to scale to high volumes,” says Wupen Yuen, Lumentum’s  senior VP & general manager  of the Datacom business unit.  “Lumentum’s high-performance 100G DML provides customers with an additional  laser technology choice to help them optimize their transceiver solutions to  best meet the needs of hyperscale data-center operators while leveraging  Lumentum’s proven high-speed laser manufacturing scale and quality.” The market opportunity for 400G/800G/1.6T pluggable transceivers  is forecasted in LightCounting’s April 2022 report to grow from $2bn in 2023 to  $6.5bn in 2027. 