Transphorm’s quarterly growth dips, but product revenue still up 38% year-on-year For fiscal second-quarter 2023 (to end-September 2022), Transphorm Inc of Goleta, near  Santa Barbara, CA, USA — which designs and manufactures JEDEC- and  AEC-Q101-qualified gallium nitride (GaN) field-effect transistors (FETs) for  high-voltage power conversion — has reported revenue of $3.67m, down  from $5.16m last quarter but up 11% on $3.3m a year ago (excluding the latter’s  one-time licensing revenue of $8m, making $11.3m in total). Specifically,  product revenue was up 38% year-on-year, reflecting another strong quarter from  ramping shipments of GaN products for a broad range of power conversion applications. “We continue to maintain our leadership position in high-power  GaN, which comprised over 65% of our fiscal Q2 revenue, while winning marquee  new designs in fast chargers and  adapters, enabled by superior and easy-to-interface SuperGaN FETs,” says president,  COO & co-founder Primit Parikh. Highlights of the quarter are listed as: On a non-GAAP basis, operating expenses were $5.1m, up on $4.5m a  year ago but cut from $5.4m last quarter. 
  Net loss was $5.12m ($0.09 per share), compared with $4.55m ($0.08  per share) last quarter and a net profit of $3.62m ($0.09 per share) a year  ago. Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash as of end-September were $34m. “This quarter saw solid execution and lower operational burn  despite reduced revenue,” says chief financial officer  Cameron McAulay. “The company remains well-positioned with a solid balance  sheet to continue to invest in staffing and capital equipment to realize its  short- and long-term objectives,” he adds. 
  “We are also executing on our stated plan of increasing capacity,  with notable improvements from our Japan Epi reactors, giving us confidence we  can better address demand,” Parikh says. “We exceeded our fiscal Q2 revenue target and remain  well-positioned to resume revenue growth of 20% sequentially in fiscal Q3, with  the opportunity to achieve 25%, despite persistent macro-economic headwinds,”  says Parikh. “We continue to aggressively pursue new customer wins and are fulfilling  our existing backlog, while managing both internal and external supply chain constraints. With our wide range of  product offerings, and notably high-power GaN, we continue to be  well-positioned for growth across multiple market segments – including  consumer, data centers, blockchain,  and industrial. We also continue to pursue near-term opportunities in two-wheel  and three-wheel EVs and longer-term opportunities in the automotive EV market,”  he adds. 