Ayar Labs adds VP of products, strategy & ecosystem and VP of manufacturing & operations To further its commercial development, chip-to-chip optical  connectivity firm Ayar Labs of Santa Clara, CA, USA has expanded its executive team by adding Lakshmikant  (LK) Bhupathi as VP of products, strategy & ecosystem and Scott Clark as VP  of manufacturing & operations. In these newly created roles, Bhupathi and Clark will focus on  product management, manufacturing, supply chain, ecosystem and partner  development to build scale for Ayar Labs’ optical I/O solution with new and  existing partners and customers such as NVIDIA, Intel, Hewlett Packard  Enterprise, Lockheed Martin, GlobalFoundries, Lumentum, Macom, Sivers,  and others. “As Ayar Labs moves aggressively into the production of our core  optical I/O technology, we’re turning our attention to scaling commercial  efforts and expanding our product line both horizontally and vertically,” says  CEO Charles Wuischpard. “LK and Scott play a critical role in helping position  us for the next exciting phase of growth as we lead not just the technical  development but also the production of optical I/O.” Bhupathi joins Ayar Labs after 20 years with Marvell  Semiconductor in design, technical marketing and product roles, including a  position as VP, product management/marketing at high-performance networking  company Aquantia (acquired by Marvell), as well as driving CXL and Ethernet NIC  product strategy and roadmap for Marvell’s next-generation cloud and enterprise  data-center applications. Bhupathi also served as the president and marketing chair  for the NBASE-T alliance (since merged with the Ethernet Alliance). Clark has extensive manufacturing, supply chain  and operations senior leadership experience, most recently as VP of supply chain  at Corsair Gaming. He has spent the past two decades leading global supply chain  management, procurement, operations and manufacturing transformations for  public and private companies, including work in the optical market and an  extended period living and working in Asia, through positions at Allied Telesis  in Japan, Stratalight Communications (which was acquired by OpNext), Arecont Vision,  AOptix Technologies and Tascent (a spinoff of AOptix). Ayar Labs has also expanded its office footprint in the San Francisco  Bay Area and opened a new office in Cambridge, MA, USA. The new office in San Jose,  CA (at 695 River Oaks Parkway) has eight times as much cleanroom  space as the existing Santa Clara office and will facilitate the company’s  test, measurement, validation and qualification efforts (completion of this  move is planned for early 2023). The East Coast office (at 678  Massachusetts Avenue,  Ste. 401,  Cambridge, MA) is a return to the company’s roots near the Massachusetts  Institute of Technology (MIT), where Ayar Labs’ co-founders met and started the  company in 2015. 