Ayar granted $15m for US DoD Project KANAGAWA Chip-to-chip optical connectivity firm Ayar Labs of Santa Clara, CA, USA has been awarded a $15m  multi-year prototype Other Transaction Agreement (OTA) in support of Project  KANAGAWA (Co-Packaged Analog-Drive High-Bandwidth  Optical Input/Output). The OTA, a non-traditional government contracting  method for fast-tracking research and innovation, was issued by Naval Surface Warfare  Center (NSWC) Crane Division to support the Office of the Under  Secretary of Defense, Research & Engineering (OUSD(R&E)) Trusted &  Assured Microelectronics (T&AM) program. The project will promote the next-level development of Ayar Labs’  optical interconnects to lead its transition into the Defense Department’s  advanced packaging ecosystem. “We look forward to working closely with Ayar Labs as part of  Project KANAGAWA to benchmark its optical I/O chiplets and lasers toward the  transition of this technology into large-scale defense applications,” says Dr Joshua  Hawke, chief engineer of RF & Optoelectronics, NSWC Crane,  Radar Technologies Division and execution lead of the OUSD(R&E)  Trusted & Assured Microelectronics program. During the first phase of Project KANAGAWA (Task A),  Ayar Labs will deliver its optical I/O chiplets and lasers at data-rate  bandwidth levels exceeding 2Tbps and energy losses below 5pJ/bit. In phase two  of the project, running parallel to Task A, Ayar Labs will collaborate  with Intel, Lockheed Martin and Qorvo to develop and demonstrate  co-packaged optical I/O solutions built on TeraPHY optical I/O chiplets and  SuperNova multi-wavelength lasers, with the goal of advancing the supply chain  ecosystem for domestic manufacturing of Ayar Labs’ optical I/O solution. “Project KANAGAWA comes at an important time for both our nation  and Ayar Labs as we look to mature US-based manufacturing for our optical I/O  solutions,” says Ayar Labs’ CEO Charles Wuischpard. “We are excited to  partner with the DoD, Intel, Lockheed Martin and Qorvo to not only  strengthen our nation’s security by establishing domestic production of our  optical I/O chiplets but also introduce next-generation defense architectures  and systems.” Co-packaged optics, which brings together photonic integrated circuits  with electronic integrated circuits inside multi-chip packages (MCP),  extends the reach of high-bandwidth data I/O. MCPs leveraging Ayar Labs’  optical I/O are poised to significantly expand the capabilities of defense  microelectronics. For example, this technology can generate dramatically higher  data rates from the field-programmable gate arrays (FPGA) that  process digital beamforming signals, opening the door to new phased-array radar  architectures. 