Avnet Silica to expand EMEA market for Navitas’ GaNFast power ICs with GaNSense Avnet Silica of Brussels,  Belgium (the European semiconductor specialist division  of global technology distributor Avnet) is collaborating with gallium nitride (GaN) power IC and silicon carbide (SiC) technology firm Navitas Semiconductor of  Torrance, CA, USA to grow the market in Europe for  GaNFast power ICs with GaNSense  technology. The two firms say  that they will work closely together to deliver their combined complementary  knowhow to bring a high level of support and expertise to customers across the Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA)  region. Navitas’ GaNFast  power ICs with GaNSense  technology integrate GaN power and drive circuitry with control capability, as  well as autonomous protection and loss-less current sensing, to deliver what is  claimed to be the industry’s highest energy efficiency, smallest  footprints, and the fastest power-conversion performance. The latest family of  GaNSense half-bridge ICs offers a fully integrated, single component solution  that enables AC–DC power supplies to achieve MHz switching frequencies in a broad  range of soft-switching applications. “We chose to work  with Avnet Silica as one of the premier experts in semiconductor distribution  in Europe,” says David Carroll, senior VP of worldwide sales at  Navitas. “The combination of our highly differentiated solutions together with  Avnet Silica’s expertise in technology markets will further support designers  and engineers to meet ever more stringent efficiency and size requirements and  regulations. With our highly experienced technical team and our European  applications lab, together, we can support customers with the best possible  solutions and fastest time-to-market,” he adds. “Navitas’ unique  GaN technology and its world-renowned monolithically integrated gate driver  and feature set will significantly expand our ‘SILICA’ wide-bandgap  semiconductor portfolio,” comments Avnet Silica’s president Gilles Beltran.  “Navitas has a depth of expertise in power semiconductors that is unrivalled  across the industry for this kind of advanced technology. We envisage this  cooperation will bring huge benefits for customers operating at the cutting  edge of power system architectures in a wide selection of applications.” 