EPC’s GaN FETs used in Solarnative’s micro-inverter Efficient  Power Conversion Corp (EPC) of El Segundo, CA, USA – which makes  enhancement-mode gallium nitride on silicon (eGaN) power  field-effect transistors (FETs) and integrated circuits for  power management applications – says that Germany-based Solarnative is  using GaN devices in its new micro-inverter to achieve what is said to be industry-best  power density. The  Power Stick is said to be the smallest inverter in the world (just 23.9mm x 23.2mm x 404mm).  With an AC output power of 350W, the volume of 0.19 liters corresponds to  a power density of 1.6kW per liter. By comparison, the IQ 7A  micro-inverter from a market-leading supplier delivers 349W with a volume of  1.12 liters, corresponding to 0.31kW per liter – not even one-fifth of the  Solarnative device. Despite the size reduction, the European efficiencies  are comparable: 96.0% for the Power Stick and 96.5% for the IQ 7A. This  reduction in volume was necessary because Solarnative wants to offer its  inverter not only as an external device (Power Stick 350-a) but also as a  version for module manufacturers (Power Stick 350-i) for integration into  the module frame. The Power Stick is recommended for modules between 330W  and 440W. Solarnative  achieves the high power density by using GaN-based power semiconductors, which allows a switching frequency of up to  2MHz and thus a simultaneous reduction in inductive components and volume. “Each  micro-inverter must be installed adjacent to a panel, usually on a roof. This  makes them harder to install, remove and replace. Manufacturers can now address  these issues using panels with these built-in micro-inverters,” says Solarnative co-founder Henk Oldenkamp. “The Power Stick  is the market-ready result of years of development. With the EPC devices  inside our modules, we can increase power density  significantly, up to five times the power density  of state-of-art micro-inverters,” he adds. “Solar  applications are putting higher demands on power devices for thermal,  reliability and power density, and  silicon-based power conversion is  not keeping pace,” comments EPC’s CEO Alex Lidow. “We are delighted to work  with Solarnative to implement GaN as third generation of semiconductors into  their micro-inverters, allowing customers to simplify installation for easier  micro-inverters and green energy  adoptions.” 