CGD demos GaN power devices at Electronica for first time Fabless semiconductor company Cambridge GaN Devices Ltd  (CGD) is participating for  the first time at Electronica 2022 in Munich, Germany  (15-18 November), when it will  take part in the conference proceedings as well as showcasing GaN devices and  discussing strategic partnerships. Spun out of the University of Cambridge Department of  Engineering’s Electrical Power and Energy Conversion group in 2016 by Dr Giorgia Longobardi and professor Florin  Udrea, CGD designs, develops and commercializes power semiconductors products that use gallium nitride (GaN)-on-silicon substrates. At Electronica, chief technology officer  Udrea is taking part in a panel discussion ‘Gallium Nitride – Beyond  Consumer Electronics’ on 16 November  (at 1pm CET, hall C3, stand 577)  moderated by Ralf Higgelke, specialist Power editor  at Markt & Technik. Also speaking during the Embedded Platform  Conference of the Power Electronics  program, taking place in the ICM (International  Congress Center) within the Messe München  complex, is CGD power electronics  engineer Dr Nirmana Perera on ‘The  challenges & possibilities of GaN devices in Parallel’ (10.30am CET, 16 November). In booth C3.535, CGD is  showing what it claims is the industry’s first easy-to-use and scalable 650V  GaN HEMT family. Its ICeGaN H1 series comprises single-chip eMode  high-electron-mobility transistor (HEMT) devices that can be driven like a  MOSFET, without the need for special gate drivers,  complex and lossy driving circuits, negative voltage supply requirements or  additional clamping components. ICeGaN HEMTs require no cascode structure, no complex multi-chip  configurations, and no thermally complex integrated solutions. Instead, they  are single-chip solutions with embedded proprietary logic that enables coupling  with standard gate drivers or  controllers. Launched in March, H1 ICeGaN HEMTs are now available for volume production  applications following a scale-up financed by two funding rounds. Key to CGD’s go-to-market plans are strategic partnerships. At  Electronica, the firm is giving two demos developed with key partners: a full  3kV photovoltaic solar inverter; and a Class D  audio amplifier. The booth also features many demos developed by CGD, including  a 65W QR flyback reference design, a  350W PFC/LLC reference design and a  3kW LLC platform. “Power electronics is now at the centre of a global movement to  improve society by turning away from old fossil-fuel-burning technologies to  new energy-efficient solutions,” says Longobardi. “GaN is right at the heart of  this movement.” 