BOE becomes largest shareholder in HC Semitek with RMB2.1bn investment After making a RMB2.1bn capital investment, BOE has become the  largest shareholder in HC Semitek and is now partnering on the development of  micro/mini-LED businesses, reports market intelligence firm TrendForce. BOE has been involved in micro/mini-LEDs since 2017 and now  possesses related offerings such as displays and backlight solutions. In 2020,  BOE established BOE MLED Technology as a subsidiary dedicated to the R&D  and manufacturing of micro/mini-LED products. HC Semitek is a major Chinese LED chip supplier and  has an overarching presence across the LED chip industry chain, producing not  only LED chips but also LED epiwafers, sapphire substrates etc. According to  data from TrendForce, in 2021 HC Semitek was the fourth largest  LED chip supplier by external sales revenue. Also, in a ranking of LED chip  suppliers based on revenue that is solely from sales of mini-LED chips, HC Semitek  is currently in third place, following Epistar and San’an. From BOE’s perspective, LED chips represent a critical section of  the display industry chain. For end-products, the quality of LED chips directly  affects their displays in terms of cost, production yield rate,  and quality. This connection between chips and end-products is also noticeable  in the micro-LED industry. For example, RGB micro-LED chips are already  regarded as a key component among the leading brand manufacturers. At the same time, these firms have taken actions to secure a  stable supply of RGB micro-LED chips. For instance, Samsung has invested in  PlayNitride in order to advance its micro-LED solutions. Also, TCL CSOT  has formed a joint venture with San’an named Xiamen Extremely PQ  Display Technology. Another example is Ennostar’s partnership with AUO and  Innolux for the development of micro-LED displays. BOE hopes that, by joining forces with HC Semitek,  it will be able to further strengthen its already advantageous position in  micro/mini-LEDs. Furthermore, in BOE’s efforts to develop related technologies,  HC Semitek  will provide significant support going forward. In HC Semitek’s view, the competition in the LED chip  industry has become fiercer in recent years as suppliers such as MTC, San’an  and Changelight release new production capacity. This year, the situation in  the LED chip market is particularly challenging because of factors such as the  resurgence of local COVID-19 outbreaks in China, the Russia–Ukraine  military conflict, and ongoing global inflation. With a sharp drop in demand  for end-products, the LED chip market has shifted to oversupply, and most LED  chip suppliers now operate at a loss. Over these years, HC Semtek  has been expanding into the high-end market segments such as mini-LED solutions  and automotive LED solutions. However, this move has come at the expense of  abandoning some segments of the low-end market. HC Semitek’s  share of the global LED chip market hence fell by 2 percentage  points from 2020 to 7% in 2021, according to TrendForce’s data.  TrendForce points out that BOE was among the investors that HC Semitek  targeted in its latest share placement, which aimed to raise a total of about  RMB2bn. The proceeds are to be used to build a base for not only the production  of micro-LED wafers but also the packaging and testing of micro-LED chips. This  capacity expansion project, in turn, is expected to raise market share and  generate profit for HC Semitek. Additionally, by forming a close  partnership with BOE, HC Semitek will be able to develop technologies that  are more suited to the needs of end-customers, it is reckoned. Simultaneously,  BOE will serve as a major sales channel for HC Semitek’s  micro/mini-LED chips. 