3D-Micromac receives order for laser lift-off systems for micro-LED device manufacturing 3D-Micromac AG of Chemnitz, Germany (which  provides laser micromachining and roll-to-roll laser systems for semiconductor, photovoltaic, glass and  display applications) says that a leading  optical solutions provider has  purchased multiple microMIRA laser lift-off (LLO) systems for use in micro-LED  device production. The customer will install the new systems in pilot and  production lines at its LED chip factory in Asia. For the display industry, micro-LEDs promise advantages such as  superior viewing angle, high dynamic range with perfect black luminance and  high brightness, wide color gamut,  fast refresh rates, long lifetime,  and low power consumption. Potential  applications include very large displays for indoor and outdoor use, as well as  high-resolution displays for augmented reality  (AR) and virtual reality (VR)  wearable devices. However, the micro-LED fabrication process is vastly more complex  than LCD and OLED manufacturing, and faces several technical challenges that  must be overcome before micro-LEDs can be readily available in the mass market.  Among these challenges is detaching and transferring the processed micro-LED  chips from the donor or growth substrate (e.g. sapphire) to an intermediate  substrate for subsequent testing without damaging the expensive growth  substrate, allowing it to be repurposed for future use. The microMIRA system precisely addresses this task, and is said to  provide highly uniform, force-free lift-off of different layers on large-area  substrates at high processing speeds without the need for costly and polluting  wet-chemical processes. The unique line beam  system is built on a highly customizable platform that can incorporate  different laser sources, wavelengths and beam paths to meet each customer’s  unique requirements. The system is capable of processing different substrate  materials and sizes, and can achieve processing speeds (including handling) of  up to 60 eight-inch wafers per hour.  Picture:  The microMIRA laser  system. “This multiple  system order is a testament to our ability to provide innovative and enabling  laser micromachining solutions for industrial applications serving both mature  and emerging markets,” says CEO Uwe Wagner. “It also represents an important  milestone for 3D-Micromac as we continue to expand our product offerings and  services into the display industry, addressing the production needs for  exciting new display technologies, including micro-LEDs,” he adds. “To date,  3D-Micromac has sold more than 10 laser processing  systems for micro-LED applications, including our industry-benchmark microMIRA  laser-lift-off system as well as our recently introduced microCETI  micromachining platform.” The microMIRA  LLO system has been used in mass production by electronics manufacturers  globally for years. In addition to gallium nitride  (GaN) lift-off from glass and sapphire substrates in micro-LED display  manufacturing, the microMIRA system can also be used for layer separation in  semiconductor and sensor manufacturing, as well as for laser annealing and  crystallization for surface modification. 