EVG launches next-gen 200mm EVG150 automated resist processing platform EV Group of St Florian, Austria – a supplier  of wafer bonding and lithography equipment for semiconductor,  micro-electro-mechanical systems (MEMS) and nanotechnology applications – has strengthened its portfolio of optical  lithography solutions by unveiling the next-generation 200mm version of its  EVG150 automated resist processing system. The redesigned EVG150 platform includes features and enhancements  that provide greater throughput (by up to 80%) and versatility, as well as  smaller tool footprint (by nearly 50%), compared with the previous-generation  platform. The EVG150 provides reliable and high-quality coating and developing  processes in a universal platform that supports a variety of devices and  applications, including advanced packaging, MEMS, RF, 3D sensing, power electronics  and photonics. Its high throughput, flexibility and repeatability support the  most demanding needs for both high-volume production and industrial development,  says the firm.  Picture:   The EVG150 automated  resist processing system. The first customer to receive the next-generation EVG150 system is  Silicon Austria Labs, a research  center for electronic-based systems (EBS). “Through our cooperative research  with leading manufacturers, we develop key technologies that build the  foundation for Industry 4.0, IoT,  autonomous driving, cyber-physical systems (CPS), artificial intelligence (AI), smart cities, smart energy and smart health  long before they reach the market,” says Dr Mohssen  Moridi, head of Research Division Microsystems of Silicon Austria Labs. “The high flexibility of  EVG’s next-generation EVG150 resist processing  system helps pave the way for high-volume implementation of new processes and  products with our development customers that fuel EBS innovation.” The next-generation EVG150 for 200mm substrates maintains the  capabilities of the previous-generation platform, including: fully automated  platform with customizable module configurations for spin and spray coating,  developing, bake and chill; EVG’s proprietary OmniSpray technology for  conformal coating of extreme topographies; sophisticated and field-proven robot  handling with dual end-effector capability to ensure continuous high  throughput; and wafer-edge, bowed, warped and thin-wafer handling. New features on the next-generation EVG150 200mm platform include: “Resist processing and patterning are the most repeated process  steps in semiconductor manufacturing. EVG has built up many years of experience  with these processes, including optical lithography and spin and spray coating,  to address the needs of the most demanding customer requirements,” says  corporate technology director Dr Thomas  Glinsner. “We’ve incorporated these learnings into our next-generation EVG150  system, which has been redesigned from the ground up to provide breakthrough  throughput and cost-of-ownership benefits in a universal platform that offers  unsurpassed flexibility to meet the widest variety of resist processing  needs.” EVG is now accepting orders for the next-generation EVG150  automated resist processing system,  and is offering product demonstrations at its headquarters. EVG executives are available to discuss the next-generation EVG150  resist processing system in booth #C1211  at SEMICON Europa 2022 (co-located  with Electronica) at Messe München in Munich, Germany (15-18 November). 