Ultra-stable emission from green micro-LEDs on silicon University of Michigan in the USA reports  “for the first time, μLEDs  grown directly on silicon with submicron lateral dimensions” [Yuanpeng Wu et al, Light: Science &amp; Applications,  v11, p294, 2022]. The resulting indium gallium nitride (InGaN) devices  featured ultra-stable green wavelength emission due to reduced quantum-confined Stark effects  (QCSEs), which result from strain-dependent electrostatic fields from different  charge polarizations of the various chemical bonds. With the usual GaN barriers between the  InGaN multiple quantum wells (MQWs), these QCSEs cause a large blue-shift in the emission  wavelength of light-emitting diodes (LEDs) as the applied voltage increases for  increased current injection. Such a shift in wavelength is particularly  unwanted in full-color display applications. The Michigan devices used aluminium gallium nitride (AlGaN) barriers  instead, enabling polarization and strain engineering to reduce QCSE. The researchers comment: “This work  provides a new approach for designing the active region of high-performance  multi-color μLEDs.” The team sees opportunities in on-chip  optical communication, and augmented reality/mixed reality (AR/MR) and ultrahigh-resolution full-color displays.  Further, the deployment on low-cost silicon (Si) substrates could lead to  seamless integration with mainstream CMOS electronics. The template consisted of an N-polar 500nm  n-GaN buffer on 100nm AlN seed grown on 2-inch Si(111) by plasma-assisted  molecular beam epitaxy (PAMBE). The nanowires were grown by bottom-up  selective area epitaxy (SAE) using a thin titanium mask (Figure 1). The nanowire growth  sequence consisted of ~450nm  Si-doped n-GaN, six periods of InGaN/AlGaN multiple QWs (MQWs), and ~170nm Mg-doped p-GaN. The  InGaN QWs were 12nm thick. The successive AlGaN barrier layers extended to form  AlGaN/GaN superlattice shells around the nanowire QWs. The barrier Al content  was about 15%, according to x-ray energy-dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) line scans. The indium content  of the wells varied up to around 30%.  Figure 1: (a) Schematic of InGaN/AlGaN  MQWs-in-nanowire heterostructure grown on silicon substrate. (b) Bird’s-eye  view scanning electron micrograph (SEM) of as-grown InGaN/AlGaN p-i-n nanowire  arrays. (c) Cross-sectional scanning transmission electron micrograph (STEM) of  nanowire on silicon substrate, showing termination of TDs on sidewall of n-GaN  nanowire before reaching active region. The hexagonal cross-section of the wires  came from the six equivalent m-planes of the GaN wurtzite crystal structure.  The tops of the wires were flat, c-plane, unlike metal-polar III-N material  that tends to result in pyramid tops. 