UCSB and UCSD professors to receive 2022 University Research Awards from SIA/SRC The Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA) and the Semiconductor  Research Corporation (SRC) have announced the recipients of the 2022 University  Research Awards: Dr Mark J.W. Rodwell, Doluca Family Endowed Chair and Professor in the Electrical and Computer  Engineering Department at the University of California, Santa Barbara (UCSB); and Dr Tajana Šimunić Rosing, Fratamico Endowed Chair and Professor in the Computer  Science and Engineering Department at the University of California, San Diego (UCSD). SIA and SRC present the University Research Awards annually to  individuals who demonstrate excellence in advancing research in semiconductor  technology and design. Rodwell and Rosing will receive the awards at the SIA  Awards Dinner on 17 November in San Jose, CA. “Research drives game-changing innovations in semiconductors and  the countless technologies they enable,” comments John Neuffer, president &  CEO of SIA, which represents US-based semiconductor manufacturing, design and  research. “Through their excellence in semiconductor research, professors  Rodwell and Rosing are advancing American innovation and helping make the world  smarter, more efficient, and better connected.” Neuffer also highlighted the importance of recent enactment of the  CHIPS and Science Act, which provides critical semiconductor manufacturing  incentives and research investments. This federal research funding will  complement existing large investments from the semiconductor industry, which  plows about one-fifth of revenue into R&D. Rodwell and Rosing join a “distinguished lineup of past award  winners based on their incredible contributions into the semiconductor  industry,” comments Dr Todd Younkin, president & CEO of SRC. Rodwell will receive the honor for excellence in semiconductor  technology research. His development of millimetre- and sub-millimeter-wave  indium phosphide  (InP) heterojunction bipolar transistors (HBTs) and III-V  metal-oxide-semiconductor field-effect transistors (MOSFETs) have extended the  limits of high-frequency radio, high-speed optical communications, and imaging  applications. His work has not only enabled ultra-high-speed 5G wireless radios  and links but has also closed the ‘Terahertz Gap’ to make the next generation of 6G  communications and high-resolution cameras and imagers possible. Rodwell is an  IEEE Fellow and has received numerous awards, including the 1997 IEEE Microwave Prize, the 1998 European Microwave  Conference Microwave Prize, and the 2010 IEEE Sarnoff Award. Rosing will receive the award for excellence in semiconductor  design research. Inspired by the human brain, her research work on  hyper-dimensional computing systems has been accelerated in hardware such as  GPUs, field-programmable gate arrays (FPGAs) and PIM to handle high-dimensional vectors  in data-intensive applications, including COVID-19 sequence analysis, drug  discovery, personalized healthcare, and the Internet of Things (IoT). Her  approaches are delivering impressive accuracy in learning from big data, with excellent performance, extreme  energy efficiency,  and robustness. Rosing is a both an IEEE and ACM Fellow. 