Navitas delivering keynote at IEEE Power Semiconductor Workshop Gallium nitride (GaN) power IC and silicon carbide (SiC)  technology firm Navitas Semiconductor of  Torrance, CA, USA, says that Dan Kinzer, co-founder & chief  operating officer/chief technology officer (COO/CTO), is presenting a  keynote speech on next-generation semiconductor technology at the 9th IEEE  WiPDA (Wide Bandgap Power Devices & Applications) 2022 workshop at  the Sonesta Redondo Beach and Marina hotel in Redondo Beach, CA, USA (7-9 November). Sponsored by the IEEE Power Electronic Society (PELS), the IEEE  Electron Devices Society, and the Power Sources Manufacturers Association  (PSMA), the WiPDA Workshop provides a forum for device scientists, circuit  designers and application and system engineers from the Power Electronics  & Electron Devices Societies to share wide-bandgap (WBG) technology  updates, research findings, experience and potential applications. Kinzer’s keynote ‘High-speed GaN and SiC: $22B of pure-play  power semiconductors’ spotlights key market drivers and technology  developments in GaN and SiC as they continue to displace legacy silicon in a  growing range of applications including mobile ultra-fast chargers, data centers,  renewables and electric vehicles (EVs). An additional technical paper ‘Advancement in Integration for GaN  Power ICs: Autonomous Protection and Loss-Less Sensing’ is being presented  by Tom Ribarich, Navitas’ senior director strategic marketing.
  Navitas says that its latest family of 650V GaNSense half-bridge  ICs offer a step forward in integration, integrating two GaN FETs with  drive, control, sensing, autonomous protection, and level-shift isolation. This  single-package solution is reckoned to reduce component count and  footprint by over 60% compared with existing discretes, cutting system cost,  size, weight and complexity. Additionally, new GeneSiC MOSFETs range from 750V to 6.5kW, and  deliver what are claimed to be the industry’s highest figures-of-merit for  high-temperature, high-speed switching. Trench-assisted planar-gate MOSFETs,  enabling 30% energy savings, 25°C cooler operation and 3x longer life. The  SiC portfolio is completed with a broad range of high-performance Schottky MPS  diodes, from 650V to 3.3kV. “Navitas delivers critical technological advantages in a $22bn  market opportunity,” says Kinzer. For 30 years, Kinzer has led R&D at  semiconductor and power electronics companies at the VP level or higher.  His experience includes developing advanced power device and IC platforms,  wide-bandgap GaN and SiC device design, IC and power device fabrication  processes, advanced IC design, semiconductor package development and assembly  processes, and design of electronic systems. Before co-founding Navitas, Kinzer  served as VP R&D, VP advanced product development, and chief technologist  at International Rectifier (IR sold to Infineon for $3bn), and senior VP  product & technology development & chief technology officer at  Fairchild Semiconductor (sold to onsemi for $2.4bn). He holds over 180 US  patents, and a BSE degree in Engineering Physics from Princeton University. 