MICLEDI demos 50nm-FWHM 630nm red GaN micro-LEDs MICLEDI Microdisplays B.V. of Leuven, Belgium – a  fabless developer of micro-LED display modules for augmented reality  (AR) glasses that was spun off from nanoelectronics research center IMEC in  2019 – has demonstrated 630nm-wavelength red gallium nitride (GaN)  with full-width half-maximum (FWHM) in the range of 50nm, enabling the integration  of highly optimized monochrome red micro-LEDs into full-color micro-LED display  modules. Historically, red micro-LEDs have suffered a reputation as a  poor-performing part. MICLEDI reckons that its approach to micro-LED full-color displays  is uniquely positioned to achieve the highest performance standards in AR  glasses. Currently, AR glasses for indoor, or semi-darkened, light settings can  be less efficient, less bright, and have lower overall performance compared  with outdoor sunlight settings. Best-in-class AR glasses with transparent  lenses, for use all the way from low indoor light to bright outdoor sunlight,  is critical to achieving high-volume consumer adoption of AR glasses. By  optimizing the chemistry and physics of each individual color, MICLEDI claims  that it enables the highest brightness of any alternative solution on the  market. Consistent with the firm’s fundamental and repeating value  proposition, the red GaN: “AR headgear in the market today ranges from monochrome monocles  for limited information-only displays to monochrome headsets and heads-up  displays to full-color glasses for industrial, enterprise and military  applications,” notes CEO Sean Lord. “Prices range from $1000 to over $5000 per  headset, which is too high for the average consumer. With the addition of red  GaN to our tool kit, MICLEDI is  perfectly positioned to bring the cost and volume advantages of its 300mm  manufacturing flow to open the door to future generations of AR glasses that  consumers can afford and enjoy,” he adds. MICLEDI now has all three micro-LED colors coming onto the market.  The company continues its close affiliation with IMEC and other significant  partners. “Red GaN is but one option,” says Lord. “Alternative approaches  vary from AlInGaP [aluminium indium gallium phosphide] to quantum dot, and other techniques. MICLEDI is  committed to pushing the cost, reliability and performance envelope of each of  these alternatives to provide the best in full-color micro-LED display modules  across a broad range of performance parameters for transparent lens AR glasses.” MICLEDI introduced its blue GaN and green GaN LED display test chips earlier this year. The new red  samples are projected to be available to customers before the end of the year. 