Indium Corp promotes Sze Pei Lim to senior global product manager, Semiconductor and Advanced Materials Indium Corp of Clinton, NY, USA has promoted  Sze Pei Lim to the role of senior global product manager,  Semiconductor and Advanced Materials. The firm refines, smelts,  manufactures and supplies materials to the global electronics,  semiconductor, thin-film and thermal management markets. Products include  solders and fluxes; brazes; thermal interface materials; sputtering targets;  indium, gallium, germanium and tin metals and inorganic compounds; and  NanoFoil. Picture:   Indium Corp’s senior global product manager Sze Pei Lim. Lim leads all aspects of the global Semiconductor and Advanced  Materials product line, including the strategic planning, product line  roadmaps, promotional activities, pricing, and channel development. She works  closely with R&D, engineering, manufacturing, sales and technical support  teams around the world to develop and grow Indium Corp’s offerings. Lim is a task force member of the International Electronics  Manufacturing Initiative (iNEMI) Packaging Technology Integration Group and has  co-chaired a number of industry projects and roadmapping initiatives over the  past five years. She is on the executive committee of the Institute of  Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Electronics Packaging Society  Malaysia Chapter, serving as secretary for the past two years. She is also  part of the organizing committee for the International Electronics  Manufacturing Technology (IEMT). She has authored a number of technical papers  and has presented regularly in various international technical conferences. In  addition to English and Malay, she speaks fluent Mandarin and has been  instrumental in developing Indium Corp’s Chinese semiconductor business  and team. Lim joined Indium Corp in 2007 as an area technical manager,  based in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, where she developed the Southeast Asia  Technical Support team. She was promoted to technical manager (SEA) in  2013 and began her role as a regional product manager for Semiconductor in  2015. She holds a bachelor’s degree from the National University of Singapore,  where she majored in industrial chemistry with a focus in polymers. 