Navitas showcases power semis at China power electronics conference Gallium nitride (GaN) power IC firm Navitas  Semiconductor of Torrance, CA, USA is participating in the 2022 China Power Electronics and Energy Conversion  Congress & the 25th China  Power Supply Society Conference and  Exhibition (CPEEC & CPSSC 2022) at the  Guangzhou Yuexiu International Conference Center, Guangdong Province  (4-7 November). Hosted by the China Power Supply  Society (CPSS), CPSSC promotes academic and technical exchange in power electronics, energy conversion and power technology to  promote technical innovation and related industries. With a history of over 40 years, CPSSC is the largest power electronics event in Asia. Navitas says that gallium nitride  (GaN) and silicon carbide (SiC) are  rapidly replacing silicon chips, with an aggregate market opportunity estimated  at over $22bn per year by 2026. The firm’s GaNFast power ICs integrate GaN power  and drive plus protection and control to deliver simple, small, fast and  efficient performance. Over 50 million  GaNFast ICs have been shipped with  zero reported GaN field failures,  now with the industry’s first and only 20-year warranty. All of the top-10  mobile phone and laptop companies,  including Dell, Lenovo, Samsung, vivo and OPPO, are adopting GaNFast ICs, with 9 out of 10 in mass production,  says Navitas. Aftermarket suppliers such as Anker, Belkin, Baseus, Amazon, UGREEN  and Spigen have also qualified GaNFast technology. With GeneSiC technology, Navitas claims to have the broadest  portfolio of SiC FETs and diodes (from 650V to 6.5kV) with the industry’s  highest efficiency high-temperature, high-speed performance. GeneSiC products  address diverse, high-power markets such as electronic vehicle (EV) on-board chargers and traction drive, solar inverters,  energy storage and industrial  applications, with customers including BYD, AMG Mercedes, LG Magna, Shinry, Jaguar Land Rover, Inovance and SolarEdge. At CPSSC, Navitas’ product, application and market promotion  includes: Navitas says that its three System Design Centers – for mobile,  data center, and EV – help customers  to maximize GaN and SiC performance advantages, including high-frequency  magnetics design, advanced power packaging and modules, plus thermal  optimization to create higher-power-density,  higher-efficiency and lower-system-cost power electronics  systems with high reliability and short time-to-market. Platform hardware  reviews include: 