Wolfspeed to supply silicon carbide power devices for Jaguar Land Rover’s next-gen EVs Wolfspeed Inc of Durham, NC, USA has announced a strategic partnership to supply silicon carbide  (SiC) power devices to UK-based Jaguar  Land Rover for its next-generation electric vehicles (EVs), delivering  increased powertrain efficiency and extended driving range. Under its Reimagine  strategy, Jaguar Land Rover is transforming to an electric-first business,  aiming to become carbon net-zero across its supply chain, products,  services and operations by 2039. Wolfspeed’s  SiC technology will be used specifically in the vehicles’ inverter, managing  the transfer of power from the battery to the electric motors. The first Range Rover  vehicles with this technology will be available from 2024, and the new  all-electric Jaguar brand the following year. The  partnership builds on Wolfspeed’s existing relationship with the race-winning Jaguar TCS  Racing team competing in the ABB FIA Formula E World Championship, where  its SiC technology has been used to accelerate on-track efficiency and  performance. The agreement  is the latest in Jaguar Land Rover’s program of establishing strategic partnerships  with industry leaders for its future modern luxury vehicles: in February, it  announced a partnership with NVIDIA focused on software-defined automated  driving systems for next-generation vehicles, starting in 2025. “We are not strangers, having collaborated  together with the Jaguar TCS Racing team for the last five seasons,” notes  Jaguar Land Rover’s CEO Thierry Bolloré. “By  developing that into a strategic partnership as part of our Reimagine strategy,  we can integrate Wolfspeed’s advanced silicon carbide technology into our  next-generation electric vehicles, delivering extended range and  performance capabilities for our clients,” he adds. “Wolfspeed is  proud to partner with Jaguar Land Rover, supporting its bold commitment to  electrify its iconic brands by using silicon carbide’s superior  performance, efficiency and range,” says Wolfspeed’s president & CEO Gregg Lowe. “The energy efficiency  of silicon carbide will play an essential role as Jaguar Land Rover  pursues its own zero carbon goals, and as the world transitions to an  all-electric transportation future.” The  partnership agreement sees Jaguar Land Rover participate in the Wolfspeed  Assurance of Supply Program, to secure the supply of the technology  for future EV production needs. Jaguar Land Rover says this will enable  greater visibility and control over its future supply chain and is key to  the new value chain approach of its operations and supply chain under  the leadership of Barbara Bergmeier, executive director of Industrial Operations. Wolfspeed’s  technology is powering electric propulsion systems across the entire voltage  spectrum – from 400V to 800V. The SiC power devices will be produced at  Wolfspeed’s Mohawk Valley Fab in Marcy, New York, which opened in  April as the world’s largest 200mm silicon carbide fabrication plant. The  fully automated facility dramatically expands capacity for Wolfspeed’s SiC  technologies, which will supply the increasing demand for EV production and  other advanced technology sectors around the world. 