First Solar investing $270m in R&D innovation center in Perrysburg, Ohio Cadmium telluride (CdTe) thin-film  photovoltaic (PV) module maker First Solar Inc of Tempe, AZ, USA plans to invest  $270m in a dedicated R&D innovation center near its existing manufacturing  facility in Perrysburg, Ohio. The new facility is believed to be the first of  its scale in the USA. Covering an area of about 1.3 million square feet, the new R&D  center will feature a pilot manufacturing line allowing the production of  full-sized prototypes of thin-film and tandem PV modules. Contingent upon  permitting and pending approval of various state, regional and local  incentives, the facility is expected to be completed in 2024. “With a record shipment backlog and  consistent demand for our modules, we face the twin challenges of optimizing  existing and planned production capacity to deliver on our commitments, while  ensuring that our technology roadmap does not lose momentum,” notes CEO Mark  Widmar. “This investment allows us to create an R&D sandbox separate from  our commercial manufacturing operations, ensuring that we can accelerate  innovation without the cost of taking mission-critical tools offline.” First Solar, which has already invested over  $1.5bn in R&D, currently operates a dual purpose manufacturing line in  Perrysburg that handles both commercial production of solar modules and product  development efforts. However, the line cannot handle both activities  simultaneously. “This new facility will play a pivotal role  in solidifying America’s leadership in the development and responsible  production of high-performance thin-film photovoltaic semiconductors,” believes  chief technology officer Markus Gloeckler. “This facility will be designed with the  future in mind, and we expect that it will directly enable the next generation  of advanced photovoltaics.” First Solar is unique among the world’s ten  largest solar manufacturers for being the only US-headquartered company and  only manufacturer of thin-film PV modules. The firm says that its investment in  developing cadmium telluride since 1999 has made the semiconductor the second most common  PV technology in the world after crystalline silicon, while safeguarding vital  intellectual property related to  the semiconductor material and its unique manufacturing processes. 