Coherent promotes Optoelectronic Devices and Modules general manager to CTO Materials,  networking and laser technology firm Coherent Corp says that Dr Julie  Sheridan Eng, previously senior VP & general manager of  Optoelectronic Devices and Modules, has become its chief  technology officer. “The appointment  of Julie Eng as chief technology officer not only recognizes her sustained  contributions to the development of an entire industry but also reveals an  important step in the evolution of our exciting growth plans,” says chair &  CEO Dr Vincent D Mattera Jr. “Dr Eng will focus on  Coherent’s future technology platforms that will enable us to address the long-term  and irreversible market trends that are core to our strategy and to our drive  for sustainably profitable growth,” he adds. “She will focus on the opportunity  for us to extend our technology platforms across the company including the  creation of new materials for energy generation, transmission and storage,  basic research around next-generation quantum technologies, breakthroughs  required for the sixth generation of wireless networks, and the adoption of  digital technologies, machine learning, and artificial intelligence across  our operations and in our products and services.” As senior VP  & general manager of the Optoelectronic Devices and Modules business  unit, Eng oversaw engineering, product management and operations for  gallium arsenide (GaAs) vertical-cavity surface-emitting lasers (VCSELs),  indium phosphide (InP) directly modulated lasers (DMLs) and detectors, and  CMOS/BiCMOS integrated circuits for datacom, 3D sensing and  high-volume consumer applications. Previous to  Coherent, Eng held senior management positions at Finisar Corp since 2003,  including executive VP & general manager of 3D Sensing and  executive VP of Datacom Engineering. Over the 15 years that she  managed datacom and transceiver engineering, her teams released over 180 fiber-optic  transceiver products and achieved numerous industry firsts. Eng began her  career at AT&T Bell Laboratories, where she led the development of  laser-based datacom transceivers. Eng has been an  advocate of women’s contributions to STEM. She is a past chair of the IEEE  Committee on Women in Engineering and presently serves on the SPIE Executive  Advisory Group. She has published over a dozen papers, co-authored a book  chapter, holds six US patents, and has given numerous invited talks. Eng  graduated summa cum laude from Bryn Mawr College with a bachelor’s  degree in Physics and also holds a B.S. in Electrical Engineering with honors  from the California Institute of Technology (Caltech). She also earned M.S. and  Ph.D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University. In 2022, Eng  was elected a Fellow of Optica (formerly the Optical Society of America) for  distinguished contributions to the advancement of optics and photonics. 