POET unveils 800G & 1.6T optical engines for hyperscale data centers POET Technologies Inc of Toronto,  Ontario, Canada — a designer and developer of the POET Optical Interposer and photonic integrated circuits (PICs) for the data-center and telecom  markets — is to use directly modulated lasers (DMLs) with integrated  drivers in its transmit optical engines and high-speed photodiodes and  integrated transimpedance amplifiers (TIAs) in its receive optical engines  to enable low-power, cost-efficient and highly scalable 800G and 1.6T pluggable  transceivers for hyperscale data centers. Working with what’s described as a market-leading designer and  manufacturer of lasers, POET’s optical engines will be the industry’s  first implementation of DMLs at these data rates, it is reckoned. POET will use  the DMLs for its modulator-free design of its 400G transmit engine. Its small  size and chip-on-board design will allow 800G and 1.6T designs to easily fit in  an industry-standard 1.6T OSFP-XD form factor. DML technology has a proven  track record of enabling high-volume transceiver deployments at every  generation of speeds in hyperscale data centers. The 100G PAM4 DML  passively integrated on the POET optical engine not only addresses existing  400G solutions at mass volume but also enables future intra-data-center  interconnects as the industry moves to higher speeds. “POET’s optical engines are ‘photonic chiplets’, unique to POET,  which enable a scalable, elegant solution to module design that can extend the  use of pluggable transceivers in data centers to 1.6T and even 3.2T,” says  chairman & CEO Dr Suresh Venkatesan. “Extending pluggables to these  speeds with industry-standard form factors was previously thought to be  impossible but, because of the small size and extent of integration of devices  in our optical engines, data-center customers will have more flexibility  in network design than ever before,” he adds. “As we continue to integrate more  devices on our platform we build more value into our optical engines,  increase transceiver module performance, reduce power and cost, and provide  unparalleled levels of flexibility for data-center customers.” POET says that pluggable transceiver customers will benefit from  its proven optical engine platform with chip-scale assembly,  monolithically integrated multiplexer/demultiplexer and passive alignments for  use in 400G, 800G and 1.6T FR4 modules. The optical engine solutions will  simplify the transceiver design and eliminate the need for cumbersome and  costly active alignments, it adds. POET expects to start sampling 800G/1.6T optical engines in  first-half 2023. 