Guerrilla RF completes ¼W linear power amplifier family Guerrilla RF Inc (GRF) of Greensboro, NC, USA – a provider of  radio-frequency integrated circuits  (RFICs) and monolithic microwave integrated circuits (MMICs) for wireless applications – has introduced the GRF5521, one of ten ¼W linear power amplifiers  (PAs) released as part of its continued expansion into the cellular market. The  indium gallium phosphide (InGaP) heterojunction bipolar transistor  (HBT) amplifiers were designed for 5G/4G wireless infrastructure applications  requiring exceptional native linearity over temperature extremes of –40°C to  85°C. Spanning a frequency range of 2.11–2.17GHz, the GRF5521 is tuned  to operate in the n1, n65 and n66 5G new radio (NR) bands. The device  delivers 23.5dBm of linear power over the entire –40°C to 85°C temperature  range while maintaining ACLR (adjacent-channel  leakage ratio) levels of better than –45dBc, IMD3 (third-order intermodulation distortion) levels  <–22dBm, EVM (error vector magnitude) levels  <1% and PAE efficiencies >20% – all without the aid of supplemental  linearization schemes like digital pre-distortion (DPD). The ability to beat the –45dBc ACLR performance metric without DPD  is critical for cellular applications like residential and commercial  repeaters/boosters, femtocells, picocells, and cable loss compensators  associated with automotive ‘shark fin’ antennas. In each of these use cases,  the sensitivity to cost, power and size constraints prohibits the use of  elaborate linearization techniques like DPD. Instead, designers must rely on  the PA’s native linearity to meet the stringent emissions mask requirements  imposed by 5G and 4G standards. During the development of the GRF55xx series, Guerrilla RF  consulted with its base of automotive and cellular repeater/booster customers  to ensure that the devices delivered the best blend of power and linearity,  thus maximizing the effective range and throughput for their cellular systems.  Guerrilla RF also designed the family of devices to be fully footprint  compatible, enabling its customer base to rapidly customize their designs for a  myriad of cellular frequencies. “The GRF5521 is the final variant in our series of mid-band ¼W PAs  which were tuned specifically for cellular bands residing within the  1.7–2.17GHz spectrum,” says CEO & founder Ryan Pratt. “By the end of the  year, we’ll have production-released products covering every major cellular  band between 660MHz and 4200MHz,” he adds. “These linear PAs are extremely  popular with our cellular booster/repeater and automotive customers, and we  continue to see significant design wins queuing up for these devices as  our customers pivot to cover additional bands of operation.” The GRF55xx family comes in pin-compatible 3mm x 3mm,  16-pin QFN packages. Samples and evaluation boards are available for the  GRF5521. Prices start at $1.55 (10,000-up, EXW USA). 