First European patent for AlixLabs’ Atomic Layer Etch Pitch Splitting technique After being granted two US patents by the US Patent Office (US10930515  in February 2021 and US11424130 on 23 August 2022), the European Patent Office  (EPO) has issued a notice of intention to grant AlixLabs AB of Lund, Sweden its first European Patent for the firm’s  Atomic Layer Etch Pitch Splitting (APS) nanofabrication technique, a  new method for manufacturing semiconductor components with a high degree of  packing (eliminating several steps in the manufacturing process). The patent covers methods to split nanostructures in half by a  single process step using atomic layer etching (ALE). “Our key  technology is based on a surprising discovery that sidewalls act as a  topographical mask in atomic layer etch processes,” notes chief  technology officer & co-founder Dr Dmitry Suyatin. “This  technology has been proven for such different materials as gallium phosphide  (GaP), silicon (Si) and tantalum nitride (TaN) – all being critical  materials to the semiconductor and optoelectronic industry. Besides already  having secured a granted two US and one Taiwan  patent, we are now delighted to announce that our European patent will also be  granted and that we have more patent applications in the pipeline. A process of  validating the patent in key countries in Europe  is in process,” he adds. AlixLabs says that, since Europe is  one of the most important markets for leading-edge semiconductor products (due  to the size of the EU inner market for electronic goods like smartphones,  PC/laptops, tablets, automotive and Internet servers), it is hence crucial for  it to protect its APS process there through IP. AlixLabs reckons that the method can have a significant impact on  the semiconductor industry by enabling sustainable scaling of electronic  components and shrink chip designs further in a cost-effective way. “The APS  method is complementary for single-exposure immersion and extreme UV (EUV)  lithography and corresponding multiple patterning technologies like  self-aligned double and quadruple patterning (SADP and SAQP, respectively) as  well as multiple exposure lithography-etch and directed self-assembly (DSA),” notes  CEO & co-founder Dr Jonas Sundqvist. It is hence  reckoned that APS can make components cheaper and less resource-intensive to  manufacture, and open up a new path for more sustainable mass production  of electronic products. It also makes it possible to manufacture semiconductor  components accurately and efficiently with manageable wafer fab equipment  investments. “APS can reduce complexity, capital expenditure and the  environmental footprint for wafer manufacturing considerably,” adds Sundqvist. “Besides that the EU is one of the biggest  markets for semiconductor components, the recent announcements of 300mm wafer  fab expansions and leading automotive sector means that it is more important  than ever to have European IP.” 