GlobalFoundries awarded $30m in US funding for development and production of GaN-on-Si GlobalFoundries (GF) of Malta, NY, USA  (which has operations in Singapore, Germany and the USA) has been  awarded $30m in federal funding to advance the development and production of  gallium nitride (GaN) on silicon at  GF’s fabrication plant in Essex Junction,  near Burlington, Vermont. GF says that, with its unique ability to handle significant heat  and power levels, GaN is positioned to enable what is describes as  game-changing performance and efficiency in applications including 5G and 6G  smartphones, RF wireless  infrastructure, electric vehicles  (EVs), power grids, solar energy and other technologies. The announcement was made at an event at GF’s fab attended by US Senator Patrick Leahy, GF president  & CEO Dr Thomas Caulfield, GF Vermont Fab VP & general manager Ken McAvey, Greater Burlington Industrial Corp president Frank Cioffi,  GF Fab team members, and other  guests. Secured by Leahy as an appropriation in the Consolidated Appropriations  Act for Fiscal Year 2022, the $30m federal  funding will enable GF to purchase tools and extend development and  implementation of 200mm GaN wafer manufacturing. The incorporation of scaled  GaN manufacturing into the fab’s capabilities extends the facility’s RF  semiconductor technology, and positions GF for making chips for high-power  applications including electric vehicles,  industrial motors, and energy applications. “Senator Leahy’s leadership and dedication have been instrumental  to the growth and success of semiconductor manufacturing in Vermont,” commented  Caulfield. “I thank Senator Leahy for his steadfast support of GF throughout  his many years in office… He has been a champion of putting this facility on  the global forefront of semiconductor manufacturing. With this new federal  funding, and the potential for further support in the 2023 federal budget, GF  is well-positioned to become a global leader in GaN chip manufacturing,” he  reckons. “This funding is an investment in US leadership in improved  technology for chips that connect everything around us and power our handheld  devices,” said Leahy. This Other Transaction Agreement (OTA) was entered into by the  Defense Microelectronics Activity via the Trusted Access Program Office (TAPO)  of the US Department of Defense. TAPO’s primary mission is to procure advanced  semiconductors for the Department’s most critical and sensitive weapons systems  platforms. TAPO has been supporting dual-use  (both civilian and military applications) GaN-on-silicon development efforts  since 2019 as GaN provides a stable semiconductor suitable in high-power,  high-frequency devices that the DoD needs to maintain technology advantage for  the USA. This current development phase plans to leverage previous TAPO  successes and continue maturing this dual-use technology. “GlobalFoundries has been a critical partner to the Trusted Access  Program Office, enabling semiconductor assurance (Trust) to advanced  semiconductor technologies for the Department’s most advanced weapon systems  platforms,” says DMEA director Dr Nicholas  Martin. “This engagement is just one step the DoD is taking to ensure the US  has continued access to advanced microelectronics technologies such as gallium nitride,” he adds. This $30m agreement is the latest federal investment to support  GaN at GF’s Vermont Fab. In fiscal years 2020 and 2021, Leahy secured a total  of $10m for R&D related to advancing GaN technology at the facility, paving  the way for the new award. GF’s facility in Essex Junction  was among the first major semiconductor manufacturing sites in the USA. Nearly  2000 GF employees work at the site, with a manufacturing capacity of more than  600,000 wafers per year. Built on GF’s differentiated technologies, the GF-made  chips are used in smartphones, automobiles and communications infrastructure  applications worldwide. The fab is a Trusted Foundry and manufactures secure  chips in partnership with the US Department of Defense, for use in some of the  nation’s most sensitive aerospace & defense systems. 