5N Plus’ subsidiary AZUR to supply new space solar cell to Sierra Space Specialty semiconductor and performance materials  producer 5N Plus Inc of Montreal, Québec, Canada says that, through its subsidiary AZUR SPACE Solar Power GmbH of  Heilbronn, Germany (acquired in 2021, which  manufactures multi-junction solar cells based on III-V compound semiconductor  materials), it has signed a ten-year extension to its exclusive teaming arrangement  with US-based commercial space company Sierra Space. AZUR will produce the new MWT solar cell, for use exclusively in  the production of Sierra Space’s patented Space Solar  Surface Mount Technology solar array systems. Developed in partnership  by both companies, this solar cell  technology enables automated production and assembly, and is expected to  revolutionize solar array cost of  assembly, resiliency and power density.  The MWT solar cells enable arrays  with higher power density, reducing the size of the arrays for equivalent  power of a conventional design. They are also more cost-effective when  completing the laydown to satellite solar power arrays. The automation enables  Sierra Space to deliver solar power arrays with less than one-half of the  conventional array lead times. In addition, the panel configurations can  be easily modified for specific applications and accommodate a wide range of  power levels, from a few watts to Megawatts. “This strategic agreement is the culmination of several years of  collaboration between AZUR and Sierra Space and we are extremely proud to begin  a commercial relationship with a space industry innovator,” comments 5N Plus’  president & CEO Gervais Jacques. “AZUR continues to expand its global  client base as the partner of choice in high-end solar cell  technology, further reinforcing 5N Plus’ leadership as a trusted partner  for the supply of critical specialty semiconductor materials for sectors  powering the future both on Earth and in space.” The innovation comes at a time when demand for solar power for  space applications is rapidly accelerating and is expected to exceed existing  available capacity. According to independent market studies, the global space power  market is expected to increase approximately tenfold by 2030 from 2019 levels,  with solar cells representing the largest growth outlook. “This agreement will be incremental to AZUR’s earnings/revenues,  which are expected to become more meaningful over time as we mutually ramp up  capacity to meet the growing demand in this critical sector,” says Jacques.  “This aligns with our long-term strategy of focusing on value-added markets  that present strong opportunities to leverage our expertise and expand our  total addressable markets.” See related item: 5N Plus completes acquisition of AZUR SPACE for €74.6m 