Veeco’s new integrated MBE and ALD system chosen for hybrid GaN deposition research Epitaxial deposition and process equipment maker  Veeco Instruments Inc of Plainview, NY, USA has received an order from Justus Liebig University Giessen (University of Giessen) in  Germany for an integrated GENxplor R&D molecular beam epitaxy (MBE)  and Fiji atomic layer deposition (ALD) system. The GENxplor MBE system enables the epitaxial growth of  high-quality materials for III-nitride semiconductors for photonic and  electronic applications focusing on material research and the development of  cubic gallium nitride (GaN) material. This dual platform  allows for in-vacuum wafer transfer from the GENxplor system to the  plasma-enhanced Fiji ALD system and back, and will further enable research  breakthroughs for applications such as micro-LEDs, optical memory and  next-generation materials for photocatalysis and water splitting. According to professor Sangam Chatterjee, head of the University  of Giessen Spectroscopy and Optics Group, the integrated GENxplor and Fiji  systems were chosen because of Veeco’s process and system design  expertise. “The decision to partner with Veeco was based on their knowledge of  the epitaxial process and their ability to realize an innovative solution that  enables our research,” says Chatterjee. “This gives my team confidence that  working with Veeco will make our research go beyond established  optoelectronics, developing new materials for photocatalysis towards the  pressing goals of realizing regenerative energy production and storage.” The GENxplor system deposits high-quality epitaxial layers on  substrates up to 3-inch in diameter. The Fiji ALD system is a thin-film  next-generation ALD system capable of performing thermal and plasma-enhanced  deposition in a modular, high-vacuum, flexible architecture that accommodates a  wide range of deposition modes using multiple configurations of precursors and  plasma gases. The system’s intuitive interface is said to make it easy to  monitor and change recipes and processes as required by customers. “We have seen great interest in combining our proven MBE and ALD  technologies to advance semiconductor device performance and this platform,  delivered to professor Chatterjee, exemplifies our ability to create novel  solutions that allow our customers to solve difficult material challenges,”  says Ganesh Sundaram Ph.D., Veeco’s VP of research &  engineering technology. The research initiative at the University of Giessen is being  supported by the European Union and the European Regional Development  Fund. The goal of this development fund is to strengthen economic, social and  territorial cohesion in the EU by correcting imbalances between its regions. 