InP market growing from $2.5bn in 2021 to $5.6bn in 2027 The indium phosphide (InP) market,  long dominated by datacom and telecom applications, will grow from $2.5bn in  2021 to about $5.6bn in 2027, forecasts the ‘InP 2022’ report from Yole Intelligence’s compound  semiconductor team.  As an indispensable building block  for high-speed and long-range optical transceivers, InP laser diodes  remain the best choice for telecom and datacom photonic applications, with  growth driven by the high-volume adoption of high-data-rate modules (above  400G), by big cloud services and national telecom operators requiring increased  fiber-optic network capacity. Specifically, the development and growth of  optical transceiver technology in the coming years will be driven by the migration  to higher data rates, lower power consumption within data centers,  and the deployment of 5G base stations. However, consumer applications are  expected to be the next showcase for the InP industry, with a compound annual  growth rate (CAGR) of 37% between 2021 and 2027. “There  has been a lot of speculation on the penetration of InP in consumer applications,”  says technology & market analyst Ali Jaffal Ph.D. “The year 2022 marks the beginning of this  adoption. For smartphones, organic light-emitting diode (OLED) displays are  transparent at wavelengths ranging from around 13xx to 15xxnm”. OEMs are interested in removing the  camera notch on mobile phone screens and integrating the 3D sensing  modules under OLED displays. In this context, they are considering moving to indium phosphide EELs (edge-emitting lasers) to replace the  current gallium arsenide (GaAs) VCSELs (vertical-cavity surface-emitting lasers). However, such  a move is not straightforward from cost and supply perspectives. With the rise  of the consumer applications, the InP supply chain will need more  investment. Yole Intelligence noted the first  penetration of InP into wearable earbuds in 2021. Apple was the first OEM to  deploy InP SWIR (short-wavelength infrared) proximity sensors in its AirPods 3  family to help differentiate between skin and other surfaces. This has been  extended to the iPhone 14 Pro family. The leading smartphone player  has changed the aesthetics of its premium range of smartphones, the iPhone 14 Pro  family, reducing the size of the notch at the top of the screen to a pill  shape. To achieve this new front camera  arrangement, some other sensors (such as the proximity sensor) had to be placed  under the display. Will InP penetration continue in other 3D sensing  modules, such as dot projectors and flood illuminators? Or could GaAs  technology come back again with a different solution for long-wavelength  lasers?  The impact of an innovative company like  Apple adding such a differentiator to its product significantly affects  companies in its supply chain, and vice versa. Traditional GaAs  suppliers for Apple’s proximity sensors could switch from GaAs to InP  platforms, since both materials could share similar front-end processing tools.  Yole Intelligence certainly expects to see new players entering the InP sector,  as the consumer market represents high-volume potential. In addition, Apple’s move could trigger  the penetration of InP into other consumer applications, such as smartwatches  and automotive light detection & ranging (LiDAR) with silicon photonics  platforms, concludes the report. 