Multi-wavelength emission from 3D structured InGaN Kyoto University in Japan has demonstrated  a 90nm wavelength spread for the light emission from indium gallium nitride (InGaN) quantum well (QW) structures grown on convex-microlens structured GaN  templates on sapphire [Yoshinobu  Matsuda et al, Appl. Phys. Express, v15, p105503, 2022].  The researchers mainly attribute the spread to differing indium incorporation  as the off-angle from planar deposition varied. The team comments: “We believe that the  gently sloping 3D structures will facilitate future LED device processing. In  addition, the continuously changing off-angle of the microlens shape provides  the continuously changing emission wavelength. Therefore, we expect that the  desired wavelength components can be extracted by electrically accessing the  corresponding local position.” The researchers hope their work could contribute  to achieving white light-emitting diodes (LEDs) without phosphors, high-capacity  communications by wavelength division  multiplexing in LiFi systems, and spontaneously arrayed micro RGB LEDs for display applications. The researchers used thermal reflow to form  GaN microlens-shaped bumps on the surface on GaN/sapphire templates (Figure 1). The microlenses were defined by  photoresist disks and lithography that were transformed into convex lens shapes by heating on a hotplate at 180°C for 40 minutes. The shaping was then transferred  from the photoresist to the underlying GaN by inductively coupled plasma reactive ion etch (ICP-RIE). The device layers were applied by metal-organic  vapor phase epitaxy  (MOVPE): 500nm 1050°C  undoped GaN (u-GaN), followed by a single 2.5nm/11nm 700°C InGaN/GaN quantum well.  Figure 1: (Top) Material structure grown  on microlens array on (0001) GaN/sapphire template and (bottom) cross-sectional  view of single microlens, with sketch graph showing off-angle variation and  expected indium composition distribution. The convex lens shape was maintained up to  30μm diameter. Beyond  that, the structures tended to exhibit a concave dip in the middle. Such dips  also showed up when the reflow temperature or time were reduced in smaller-diameter  structures. The QW layers reduced the maximum off-angle from 11° to 8° in samples with 20μm-diameter microlenses. The microlens heights  were ~1.5μm before and after MOVPE,  but the lateral diameter increased from 20μm to 50μm. The researchers suggest that “the surface adatoms diffuse from  the top of the microstructure or the planar region around the microstructure to  the bottom.” The variation of indium incorporation  across the microlens structure was evaluated using cathodoluminescence (CL) at  various positions (Figure 2).  The peak wavelength varied across the microlens from 490nm down at the center  to 400nm near the edge. The total emission with a peak at 410nm was dominated  by the shorter wavelengths due to the lower indium incorporation and larger  area of the circumference relative to the regions towards the center. Higher-indium-content  InGaN tends to have lower emission efficiency.  Figure 2: (Top) Scanning electron  microscope (SEM) image of InGaN QWs on GaN microlens structures and  monochromatic CL mapping images taken at various wavelengths. (Bottom)  Spatially resolved CL spectra (right) at given positions of microlens (left)  and across entire structure. The wavelength spread of 90nm is wider than  previously reported work by the Polish Institute of High Pressure Physics which showed a 40nm  spread with the off-angle varying up to 2.4°. The off-angle profile of the Kyoto microlens  structures reached around 8°.  From other research, it is thought that, while off-angles in the low range  exhibit reduced indium incorporation with increasing off-angle near zero,  beyond about 30° the indium  incorporation increases up to a maximum at 60°. Another possible effect affecting the peak  wavelength could be the effective width of the QW, which naturally varied  through the microlens profile. However, on the basis of transmission electron microscope and energy-dispersive x-ray  studies, the researchers conclude the dominant factor determining indium  composition was the off-angle dependence of indium incorporation, modified by  the surface diffusion of gallium atoms during the MOVPE process. 