ams OSRAM launches 514nm laser diode as small, low-cost alternative to argon-ion lasers ams OSRAM GmbH of Premstätten, Austria  and Munich, Germany has released the Metal Can PLT5 522FA_P-M12, its  first commercial off-the-shelf semiconductor laser emitter to produce the  specific 514nm wavelength output required by many applications for  life science in research and diagnostics. The introduction  of a 514nm (±1nm) laser diode as a standard, non-custom product enables  manufacturers of scientific and measurement equipment to replace the argon-ion  lasers that have traditionally been used to generate laser emission at a peak  wavelength of 514.5nm. A semiconductor laser such as the PLT5 522FA_P-M12 is in  general more cost-effective and much smaller than an argon-ion laser, has a  longer operating lifetime, and eliminates the need for a cumbersome water cooling  mechanism. The weight of a single-mode laser diode is just a few grams,  compared with several kilograms for cooling and the power supply of an  argon-ion laser. Previous attempts  to produce laser-diode-based 514nm emitter modules have been hampered by the  substantial logistics effort required in the past to customize laser diodes  binned by a specific wavelength, notes ams OSRAM. The new 514nm laser diode will  enable customers to produce a narrow bandwidth using a volume Bragg grating  (VBG) or external cavity design, reducing the bandwidth even further to  <0.1nm for applications including Raman spectroscopy and holography.  Picture:   ams OSRAM’s first  commercial off-the-shelf semiconductor laser emitter, the Metal Can PLT5 522FA_P-M12, produces the specific  514nm wavelength output required by many applications for life science in research and diagnostics. The PLT5 522FA_P laser  diode with 50mW optical power output at 514nm±1nm (Bin M12) is compatible with  fluorescent dyes in the 514nm range as well as with various third-party lenses.  This makes the laser diode suitable for many applications in the field of life sciences,  including: The PLT5  522FA_P-M12 laser diode is supplied as standard parts manufactured by ams OSRAM  and readily available via authorized sales channels. “The scientific  equipment market will benefit from a sustainable, production-friendly option to  replace bulky, expensive argon-ion lasers with no loss of optical precision or  performance,” says senior product marketing manager Thomas Brandes. “The  514nm version of the PLT5 522FA_P laser diode family, which maintains  performance within its operating parameters with a high degree of precision,  provides exactly this option, enabling customers to reduce their materials cost  and save space while enjoying the much longer lifetime before replacement of a  high-quality laser diode,” he adds. Samples of the  PLT5 522FA_P-M12 laser diode are available now. ams OSRAM is also developing a  demonstrator module that combines the laser emitter with a driver and a lens to  produce a collimated beam. 