TRUMPF adds multi-junction option to VCSEL array portfolio TRUMPF Photonic Components GmbH of Ulm,  Germany (part of the TRUMPF Group) – which manufactures vertical-cavity  surface-emitting lasers (VCSELs) and photodiodes for the consumer electronics,  datacoms, industrial sensing, heating and automotive markets – says  that it is supporting the demand for miniaturization in consumer electronics  and automotive applications by expanding its VCSEL array portfolio with a  multi-junction option. The tunnel function technology is  said to offer a highly efficient solution for the demanding trend towards  miniaturization. With tunnel functions, the performance of a single VCSEL is  increased, as multiple active zones are put into series in the same VCSEL  component. Up to three times the output can be generated from the same VCSEL  device. Most illumination applications benefit from higher efficiency and  increase in output power with the same VCSEL light source. “Our customers also  benefit from an increase in flexibility,” says Alexander Weigl, head of product  management. “Based on their application needs, they can configure their VCSEL  components with a single, double or triple junction.” Picture:   Multi-junction VCSELs  support LiDAR applications, which require high output power within limited space. The multi-junction technology  supports applications such as light detection & ranging (LiDAR), as this  application in the automotive sector requires high output power within limited  space for the short- and long-range identification of objects. “We even combine  the multi-junction technology with our ViBO technology platform,” says Weigl.  “Due to our integration approach to make our VCSELs smarter, this unique VCSEL  comes with integrated backside optics and is already up to 5-10 times smaller  compared to other VCSELs,” he adds. “This is a big step towards miniaturization,  while increasing output power and reliability of the VCSEL components.” VCSELs will remain a major light  source for applications in smartphones, consumer electronics and automotive  applications, reckons TRUMPF, as they are highly efficient and boast a long  service life.  Based on the application requirements, the firm offers options with highly  integrated optical structures for the best fit. Therefore, along with the  multi-junction option and monolithically integrated optics, VCSELs can offer  polarization control for improved illumination quality, or integrated  photodiodes to enable the further processing of light signals. To offer robust VCSEL devices with  high performance, TRUMPF covers the whole process chain, from the developing  and designing right to its manufacturing of its VCSELs solutions. 