GeSn resonant-cavity LEDs Researchers in Taiwan report  room-temperature mid-infrared resonant electroluminescence from germanium tin (GeSn) resonant-cavity light-emitting  diodes (RCLEDs) with a lateral p-i-n configuration on a silicon-on-insulator  (SOI) substrate [Chen-Yang  Chang et al, Photonics Research, v10, p2278, 2022]. The team from National Chung Cheng  University and National Taiwan University see the group IV elements GeSn as being more  compatible with silicon-based electronic–photonic integrated circuits (EPICs) than hybrid or  monolithic combinations with III-V light-emitting devices. Group IV light emission is hampered by the  indirectness of the bandgap, which inhibits electron-hole recombination into  photons. However, the Ge energy band structure has a direct valley at the Γ point that is only 136.5meV higher than the  indirect L-valley. The team theoretically calculated that the  band structure of GeSn with 4.3% Sn content and 0.52% compressive strain showed  a decrease in the energy difference between the conduction-band valleys at the  direct Γ point and in the  L-direction to 89meV (Figure 1). The researchers comment: “Thus, the electron density populating  the direct conduction band can be significantly enhanced under current  injection, thereby enhancing the direct-gap light emission efficiency.”  Figure 1: Calculated band structure of  GeSn active layer at 300K. The heavy-hole (HH) band peak is also raised some 48meV  above the light-hole (LH) band. It has been found that GeSn with Sn content  greater than 6% has a direct bandgap, but devices, including optically pumped  lasers, constructed from such material tend to only perform at cryogenic  temperatures so far. Achieving high Sn content is difficult due to the low  solubility of Sn in Ge. The researchers comment: “Most of the demonstrated  group IV  GeSn LEDs and lasers are vertical p-i-n diode structures, which suffer from a  strong optical loss induced by the metal pads and heavily doped regions that  could significantly increase the threshold and/or decrease the lasing  temperature. To overcome this problem, lateral p-i-n structures have been  proposed by keeping the lossy metal pads and heavily doped regions far away  from the active region.” Also, EPICs would be easier to achieve with  lateral laser structures. EPICs have a wide range of deployments in  telecommunications, on-chip optical interconnection, sensing, and quantum  computing. The RCLED material was grown by molecular beam epitaxy (MBE) on  silicon-on-insulator (SOI) substrate with a Ge virtual substrate (VS) template layer (Figure 2). The buried oxide (BOX) of the  substrate was 1μm, and  the top silicon (Si) was 2.5μm.  Figure 2: (a) Schematic diagram of  lateral GeSn p-i-n diodes on SOI substrate. Inset: layer structure of grown  sample (not to scale). (b) Refractive index profile along z direction without thin Si cap. (c) Finite element simulation  of energy distribution along z direction at 1980nm, and (d) of selected transverse modes. The VS consisted of 100nm Si grown at 600°C, 100nm Si at 350°C, 117.5nm Ge at 350°C, and 117.5m Ge at 550°C. The structure was also  subject to in-situ annealing at 800°C for 5 minutes between the low- and high-temperature Ge depositions. The 540nm GeSn with 4.3% Sn content was  grown at the very low temperature (as these things go) of 150°C to avoid Sn segregation.  The final Si cap was also grown at the same temperature. Photoluminescence (PL) spectra showed a  series of peaks from the resonant Fabry-Pérot cavity with an envelope maximum around 1980nm,  corresponding to a photon energy of 626meV, consistent with expectations from  the calculated bandstructure. The researchers assign the maximum to the lowest  direct bandgap of the GeSn active layer. 