MICLEDI and Kura partner on manufacturing AR glasses MICLEDI Microdisplays B.V. of Leuven, Belgium – a  fabless developer of micro-LED display modules for augmented reality  (AR) glasses that was spun off from nanoelectronics research center IMEC in  2019 – and Silicon Valley-based AR headset developer Kura  Technologies are collaborating to manufacture AR glasses. Based on Kura’s  proprietary architecture from the chip level up, the new glasses are  designed by Kura and incorporate MICLEDI’s unique 300mm micro-LED displays to  achieve the performance required for Kura’s next generation of AR glasses. MICLEDI’s technology is based on a combination of III/V materials  processing, 3D integration and 300mm silicon-based processing combined  with a proprietary ASIC to provide a self-contained, compact monolithic AR  display with what is said to be high image quality and power efficiency. The two companies have been working together for over a year, with  MICLEDI providing Kura early access to advanced micro-LEDs under a closely held  collaboration. Kura was one of the first customers to receive micro-LEDs from  MICLEDI, enabling them to build and test its unique approach for driving and  controlling micro-LED displays for AR glasses. Under the partnership, MICLEDI will continue to provide Kura  access to devices fabricated in its 200mm fab as well as provide Kura with  early access to customized blue, green and red devices as they come from their  300mm wafer foundry. “We’ve had a chance to visit Kura’s office in the Bay Area,  meet their team and see their latest developments and demos,” says MICLEDI’s  CEO Sean Lord. “We were very impressed by their progress over the years, the  multi-disciplinary technical expertise and the field-of-view and clarity of  their demos,” he adds. “Kura’s fast-paced product engineering team has benefited  tremendously from MICLEDI’s quick-turn 200mm prototype fabrication capability  and responsive team of professional LED design and process experts,” comments Kura’s  founder, CEO & CTO Kelly Peng. “MICLEDI is well positioned to achieve  industry leadership in 300mm micro-LED fabrication, offering process advantages  and direct compatibility with our high-performance custom 300mm backplane,” he  believes. According to the market analyst firm Yole, the global AR market is  rising at a compounded annual growth rate of more than 30% over 2021-2027,  reaching $88.4bn as it becomes the next consumer platform. “In May of this year, we announced a partnership with  GlobalFoundries to bring our proprietary 300mm micro-LED designs into  high-volume, low-cost mass production,” says Lord. “Working with Kura  should provide mutually attractive timing and mass-production ramp plans for  both MICLEDI and GlobalFoundries.”  Picture:   Kura’s customized AI-generated optics and  glasses using MICLEDI micro-LED displays. Kura says that its proprietary architecture enables dynamic defect  correction, 100x resolution expansion, and can tolerate 10,000x the defect rate  and 5x the uniformity variation of its competitors, enabling it to go to market  with high-performance 8K AR glasses with micro-LED panels that can be  fabricated now and in the next year, not several years from now. “The partnership with GlobalFoundries allows us to take advantage  of their expertise in large-scale, reliable manufacturing in order to reliably  ramp our glasses to the 100,000s of units our customers are demanding,” says  Kura’s co-founder & technical lead Bayley Wang, who says that Kura is the  only AR company he’s aware of that is working with such a large foundry to  build custom micro-displays. “Combined with the successful tape-out of our  custom mixed-signal display driver IC, which is the world’s fastest  micro-display driving IC at our partner TSMC, we’re on track to reliably  build our displays and launch our product at scale.” 