ST to build €730m silicon carbide wafer factory in Catania, Italy STMicroelectronics of Geneva, Switzerland is to build an integrated silicon carbide  (SiC) substrate manufacturing facility in Italy to support the increasing  demand from customers for SiC devices across automotive and industrial  applications as they transition to electrification and seek higher efficiency.  Production is expected to start in 2023, enabling a balanced supply of SiC  substrate between internal and merchant supply. The investment of €730m over five years will be supported  financially by the State of Italy in the framework of the National Recovery and  Resilience Plan and it will create about 700 direct additional jobs at full  build-out. Built at ST’s Catania site in Italy alongside its existing SiC  device manufacturing facility, the SiC substrate manufacturing facility will be  what’s reckoned to be the first of a kind in Europe for the volume production  of 150mm-diameter SiC epitaxial substrates, integrating all steps in the  production flow. ST says that it is committed to developing 200mm wafers. ST says that the Catania substrate project is a key step in  advancing the vertical integration strategy for its SiC business. The firm’s  high-volume STPOWER SiC products are currently manufactured in its fabs in  Catania and Ang Mo Kio in Singapore. Assembly & test are done at  back-end sites in China (Shenzhen) and Morocco (Bouskoura). The investment in  the SiC substrate manufacturing facility builds on this and is reckoned to be a  significant milestone on ST’s path towards reaching 40% internal substrate  sourcing by 2024. “ST is transforming  its global manufacturing operations, with additional capacity in 300mm  manufacturing and a strong focus on wide-bandgap semiconductors to support its  $20bn+ revenue ambition,” says  president & CEO Jean-Marc Chery. “We are expanding our operations in Catania, the  center of our power semiconductor expertise and where we already have  integrated research, development and manufacturing of SiC with strong  collaboration with Italian research entities, universities and suppliers,”  he adds. “This  new facility will be key to our vertical integration in SiC, reinforcing our  SiC substrate supply as we further ramp up volumes to support our automotive  and industrial customers in their shift to electrification and higher  efficiency.” Catania has long been an important site for innovation for ST as  the home of its largest SiC R&D and manufacturing operations, contributing  to the development of new solutions for producing more and better SiC devices.  With an established eco-system focused on power electronics, including a  long-term collaboration between ST and various stakeholders (the University,  the CNR -Italian National Research Council, companies involved in equipment and  product manufacturing) as well as a large network of suppliers, the investment  is intended to strengthen Catania’s role as a global competence center for  silicon carbide technology and for further growth opportunities. 