Vector Photonics’ design engineer O’Dowd short-listed for TechWomen100 awards Photonic-crystal surface-emitting laser (PCSEL)  firm Vector Photonics Ltd of Glasgow, Scotland, UK says that design engineer  Anna O’Dowd has been short-listed for the TechWomen100 awards, a WeAreTechWomen  initiative helping to raise the profile of women in technology. Picture:  Vector Photonics’ design engineer Anna O’Dowd. WeAreTechWomen aims to increase the number of women in tech;  support companies wishing to attract, retain and develop female talent; upskill  and enhance womens’ careers; encourage girls into STEM; and share effective  initiatives that build awareness of successful women in technology careers. At Vector Photonics O’Dowd has built a design simulation package  for the company’s all-semiconductor, PCSEL devices that allows multiple  elements of a PCSEL to be designed simultaneously, accelerating  commercialization of the technology into data-center and co-located optics markets. “It’s a privilege to work in Vector Photonics on PCSELs, a new  class of laser. It is exciting to be involved from the beginning, making me one  of the first women in the sector,” says O’Dowd. “I am passionate about science  and technology and see these awards as my chance to role model, influence and  mentor other women,” she adds. “Vector Photonics has supported OUP (Opening up Photonics)  since the beginning, which champions inclusivity, accessibility and diversity,  and we have staff on its steering committee. The TechWomen100 awards align with  that agenda.” O’Dowd has a first-class degree in Physics with Particle Physics  and Cosmology, from Lancaster University, where she was amongst the top  students, course representative and Physics ambassador. She went on to do  an MSc in Nanoscience and Nanotechnology at the University of Glasgow –  graduating top in her class. She is a member of the Institute of Engineering  and Technology (IET) and is currently working towards chartered engineer  status. 