GaN Systems ‘GaN Cup’ power electronics design competition chooses 16 finalists GaN Systems Inc of Ottawa, Ontario, Canada (a fabless developer of  gallium nitride-based power switching semiconductors for power conversion and  control applications) says that 16 teams from China’s top universities  have been selected as finalists in the 8th annual ‘GaN Systems Cup’  College Power Electronics Application Design Competition. First launched  by the China Power Supply Society (CPSS) in 2015 as an exploratory  engineering practice activity for college students across the country, the  competition is the highest-level college student competition in the country’s power electronics  field. Finalists have been selected based on their prototype design work around  high-efficiency and high-power-density single-stage photovoltaic inverters  using GaN Systems’ power transistors. This year’s  competition, which began in January, appealed to a broad universe of college  students — attracting 64 teams from 46 colleges and universities across the  country. This year’s teams are tasked with creating a GaN-based 400V  photovoltaic power supply design that uses GaN Systems’ semiconductors  to meet the following evaluation criteria: In May,  project proposals of participating teams were reviewed, and 50 teams were  selected to enter the preliminary round of the competition. The 16  finalists will present their designs concurrent with this year’s 25th Annual  Academic Conference of the China Power Supply Society (CPSSC 2022),  co-located with the 2022 China Power Electronics and Energy Conversion  Conference (CPEEC 2022, where GaN Systems is exhibiting in booth B010)  at the Guangzhou Yuexiu International Conference Center Guangdong Province (4-7 November).  Designs will be judged on design criteria, functionality, ingenuity and  presentation quality. Winners will be recognized at an on-site awards ceremony  at CPSSC. “We are  thrilled to be in the eighth year of this competition, which encourages power  electronics students to apply what they have learned and link theory with  practice,” says GaN Systems’ CEO Jim Witham. “The competition provides an  incredible opportunity to showcase next-generation GaN-powered designs that  will revolutionize the power industry, contribute to sustainability actions,  while also encouraging more students to innovate in the field of power electronics  using GaN power semiconductors.” 