onsemi launches automotive SiC-based power modules for on-board chargers Power semiconductor IC supplier onsemi of  Phoenix, AZ, USA has  announced a trio of silicon carbide (SiC)-based power modules in transfer-molded  technology for use in on-board charging and high-voltage (HV) DC-DC conversion  in all types of electric vehicles (xEV). The APM32 series is reckoned to  be the first-of-its-kind that adopts SiC technology into a transfer-molded  package to enhance efficiency and shorten charge time of xEVs and is  specifically designed for high-power 11-22kW on-board chargers (OBC). Each of the three modules exhibits low conduction and switching  losses, combining with best-in-class thermal resistance and high voltage  isolation to deal with 800V bus voltage. The enhanced efficiency and lower  heat generation ultimately allow for a more powerful OBC that can charge  the xEV faster and increase its operating range (two critical factors for  consumers). “Our new modules employ the latest SiC technology to minimize  losses and overall system volume, allowing designers to meet charging  efficiency and space goals,” says Fabio Necco, VP & general manager  Automotive Power Solutions at onsemi. “By adopting the pre-configured modular  format, designers are able to configure their designs faster, with  significantly lower time-to-market and design risk.” Taking advantage of onsemi’s end-to-end SiC supply chain  capability and proven SiC MOSFETs and diodes, the APM32 modules offer high  levels of reliability, and each module is serialized for full traceability. The  modules can operate with junction temperatures (Tj) as high as  175°C, ensuring reliability even in challenging, space-constrained automotive  applications. “APM32 provides a differentiated solution for our customers by  leveraging onsemi’s best-in-class packaging to unleash the full capability of  the leading-edge silicon carbide technology,” says Simon Keeton, executive VP  & general manager, Power Solutions Group. “In addition, we know  our customers value supply assurance, which our end-to-end SiC supply chain  capabilities provide.” 