Oxford Instruments and ITRI develop recessed-gate GaN MISHEMT Oxford Instruments Plasma Technology (OIPT)  of Yatton, near Bristol, UK and  its research partner Industrial Technology Research Institute (ITRI) of HsinChu, Taiwan have announced technology  developments that, they reckon, can significantly benefit key hyper-growth  electric vehicle (EV), data-center  and 5G markets. The developments allow critical transistor components to operate  at higher voltages (increasing performance and reliability) while also  achieving a safer and more energy efficient operation (normally off E-mode) compared with existing  devices. The new gallium nitride (GaN)  HEMT device architecture is defined by a recessed and insulated gate junction  into the aluminium gallium nitride (AlGaN) layer, i.e. a GaN  MISHEMT. In September 2021, OIPT and  ITRI announced a cooperative research program for next-generation compound semiconductors. The latest breakthrough  is an example of that collaboration delivering on its goal of accelerating  technology to benefit the partners, their regions and wider global markets.  Oxford Instruments has since also  unveiled an exclusive supply deal with in-situ  metrology system maker LayTec AG of Berlin, Germany, whose  end-point technology is used to control the GaN MISHEMT recess gate depth.  Recess depth accuracy and repeatability is critical to tune the device  performance characteristics, and LayTec’s technology is designed specifically  for this application, achieving target depth accuracy of ±0.5nm. ITRI provides  pilot production and value-added services, including process verification and  product development. OIPT says that ITRI’s integration services, especially  this GaN development project, have proved beneficial, quickly proving the  higher performance of the GaN MISHEMT and providing a lower risk and faster  route to market for the device. “We have excellent strategic partners and customers like Enkris,  ITRI, LayTec and ROHM, and our GaN solutions are positioned strongly to serve,  grow and gain from big opportunity markets,” reckons Oxford Instruments’ strategic business development director Klaas Wisniewski.  “Our leading atomic layer etch (ALE)  and atomic layer deposition (ALD)  technology is raising material engineering performance to achieve new levels of  surface quality and defect reduction, to meet the growing demand for  higher-performing devices. With our technology partner ITRI, high-volume GaN  manufacturing customers and our focussed investment into high-value and  proprietary process solutions, we expect the GaN device market to be a key  driver for our business and technology roadmap,” he adds. “ITRI has well-established expertise and history in providing GaN  HEMT manufacturing solutions that enable the global supply chain for GaN power electronics and RF applications,” says Robert Lo, deputy general director of ITRI’s Electronic  and Optoelectronic System Research Laboratories (EOSL). “However, to  solve the technology challenges associated with fabrication of next-generation  devices, we needed more accurate and controlled technology solutions such as  ALE for GaN HEMT high-volume  manufacturing. Through our long-standing partnership with Oxford Instruments,  we have successfully qualified and integrated their ALE solution for a  recessed-gate MISHEMT into our GaN HEMT  pilot-production line.” Wisniewski presented a talk ‘Enhancing GaN HEMT Performance for Power Electronics  Applications with Atomic Scale  Processing Production Solutions’ at SEMICON Taiwan  2022 in TaiNEX 1, Taipei (14-16 September). 