ams OSRAM launches 100mW UV-C LED with 5.7% wall-plug efficiency at 265nm ams OSRAM GmbH  of Premstätten, Austria and Munich, Germany has complemented its high-power  UV-C LED portfolio for purification applications by launching the OSLON  UV 6060, which offers typical optical output power of 100mW from  a single die source at 265nm (the emission wavelength that  provides the highest germicidal effectiveness) combined with what is claimed to  be market-leading wall-plug efficiency (WPE) of on average 5.7%  (as per  internal tests).  Picture: ams OSRAM's high-power UV-C LED. The firm says  that the OSLON UV 6060 meets the needs of industrial applications  delivering sustainable UV-C treatment solutions for a clean and purified  environment. “We are accelerating the industrialization of UV-C LEDs  in the growing field of purification and sanitization of air, surfaces and  water,” says senior product manager Nina Reiser. “The new OSLON UV-C LED  is ideal for applications which require maximum germidical effectiveness at  high power levels  while providing outstanding wall-plug efficiency,” she adds. “There are a  variety of benefits compared to traditional lighting technologies such as  adaptability, compactness and instant-on functionality. However, UV-C LEDs  gained momentum and enable, with its characteristics, on-demand purification in  everyday applications.” The wavelength  range of 200-280nm (UV-C radiation from the sun) does not pass through the  earth's atmosphere, which is why bacteria and viruses have evolutionary little  or no defense mechanisms against it. If germs are irradiated with artificially  generated UV-C radiation, it attacks the cell structure of micro-organisms such  as viruses or bacteria as it alters the microbial DNA, which disrupts their  capability to replicate. UV-C light has  hence already been used for many years for purification applications. Compared with  the bulky and wavelength-limited mercury vapor lamps used in the past,  the aluminium gallium nitride  (AlGaN)-based UV-C LED has a robust design. The compact 6mm x 6mm  footprint gives the added benefit of flexible design for space-critical  applications, allowing the LED to be installed directly at the point of use  such as in washing machines or air conditioners. The high-power version of the  OSLON UV family achieves on average 100mW of optical power from an injection  current of 250mA. 