Toray and A*STAR’s IME co-developing high-heat-dissipating adhesive sheets for SiC power semiconductors Toray Industries Inc and the Institute of  Microelectronics (IME) at Singapore’s Agency  for Science, Technology and Research (A*STAR) have begun joint research  to develop practical applications for high-heat-dissipating adhesive sheets for  silicon carbide (SiC) power semiconductors. Due to their significant energy-efficiency  and carbon neutrality benefits, applications of SiC power semiconductors include  automobiles, smart grids,  and data centers. In  particular, for further energy conservation, SiC is being applied more  extensively for automotive applications. Compared with conventional silicon,  SiC has superior heat resistance, which leads to significantly improved  performance by efficiently dissipating the heat generated. Development efforts will combine Toray’s  material and fabrication technologies with IME’s design, prototyping and  evaluation technologies. This is expected to improve the simplicity and  reliability of processes for applying high-heat-dissipating adhesive sheets and  to enhance semiconductor quality, dependability and safety. Toray and IME aim  to provide comprehensive solutions to SiC device manufacturers and to  contribute to the uptake of high-efficiency SiC power semiconductors. Toray will promote the joint research with  support from the new Toray Singapore Research Center (TSRC, a department of Toray International Singapore Pte Ltd), which opened in June. Toray offers electro-coating materials  such as Semicofine non-photosensitive polyimide and Photoneece photosensitive  polyimide which employ proprietary molecular design technology as well as FALDA  adhesive film. Semiconductor, electronic component and display manufacturers  rely heavily on these products because of their high reliability. Since 2016, Toray has participated in  several international consortia on IME’s advanced semiconductor packaging,  deepening collaboration and achieving results through joint research. Toray and IME previously collaborated to  develop a robust SiC power semiconductor module that incorporates  high-heat-dissipation adhesive sheets from the FALDA lineup. General heat-dissipating  adhesive materials using grease and solder have a large contact thermal resistance  with the cooler, resulting in failure due to inadequate cooling of the  semiconductors. Toray and IME resolved these problems by applying Toray’s  material to create the first prototype of a new SiC power semiconductor  module using a heat-dissipating adhesive sheet with a very low contact thermal resistance  (lower than conventional products). Durability tests at high temperatures (to estimate  the reliability and service lives of power semiconductors connections  subject to heat fatigue) confirmed that the module lasted for a significantly  large number of power cycles. In the joint research, Toray and IME will  continue to prototype and evaluate devices to improve the simplicity and  reliability of processes to employ high-heat-dissipating adhesive sheets in the  drive for commercialization. “We  have long respected IME’s prowess in SiC power semiconductor design and evaluation  technology,” comments Yuichiro Iguchi, corporate VP of Toray’s Research Division. “We’re  delighted to collaborate with Singapore’s government agencies on such  public-private R&D projects. We look forward to accelerating efforts to  overcome the challenges of applying advanced heat dissipation technology to enhance energy efficiency and  help drive to sustainable economic growth,” he adds. “Our  mutual capabilities come together in a complementary fashion to enable the  co-development of novel heat-dissipating solutions,” says IME’s executive director Terence  Gan. “Toray’s R&D presence in Singapore will also help build a stronger  R&D ecosystem in this part of the world.” 