US DoE grants $10.3m to establish first Energy Frontier Research Center in Arkansas A team of  researchers led by Shui-Qing ‘Fisher’ Yu, electrical engineering professor  at the University of Arkansas (U of A), is to receive a $10.35m grant from the  US Department of Energy (DoE) to establish the first Energy Frontier  Research Center in Arkansas. The Center for  Manipulation of Atomic Ordering for Manufacturing Semiconductors will be  dedicated to investigating the formation of atomic orders in semiconductor  alloys and their effects on various physical properties. The research program  aims to enable reliable, cost-effective and transformative manufacturing of  semiconductors. The four-year  grant is part of the DoE’s $540m in research funding to universities and  national laboratories focused on clean energy technologies. The ultimate  goal is to create and develop low-carbon manufacturing processes that will  reduce greenhouse-gas emissions. The award is  based on the multi-institutional team’s recent discovery that atoms in the semiconducting  alloy silicon germanium tin (SiGeSn) demonstrate a short-range order  in a periodic lattice (i.e. a regular and predictable arrangement of atoms over  a short distance, usually only one or two atom spacings). This discovery had a  significant effect on the energy bandgap and led to the hypothesis that  material properties in semiconductor alloys could be designed and fabricated by  manipulating the order of atoms. “We particularly  thank the institutional support from U of A, which played a critical  role in proposal completion and will assist center operation,” Yu says.  Picture:   From left: Greg Salamo, Hiro Nakamura, Shui-Qing ‘Fisher’ Yu, Hugh  Churchill and Jin Hu, of the University of Arkansas. In addition to  Yu, the team comprises four colleagues in the Department of Physics — distinguished  professor Greg Salamo, assistant professor Jin Hu, associate professor  Hugh Churchill and assistant professor Hiro Nakamura — and several researchers  at other institutions. The U of A will  lead researchers from Arizona State University, George Washington  University, Stanford University, University of California Berkeley, Dartmouth  College, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, University of Arkansas Pine Bluff,  University of Delaware, and Sandia National Laboratory. 