ELPHiC sampling InP integrated optics/electronics PIN receiver, eliminating APDs Fabless firm ElectroPhotonic-IC Inc (ELPHiC) of Ottawa,  Ontario, Canada, which provides indium phosphide (InP) optoelectronic chips,  has made available samples of its integrated optics/electronics receiver. This  follows sampling of its 10G 1271 laser for ONU applications (which has shown  high reliability, the firm says). ELPHiC has developed optoelectronic integration technology,  leading to InP chips enabling higher performance, lower power consumption  and increased reliability for lasers and PIN receivers. This integration  eliminates the need for avalanche photodiodes (APDs), reducing the cost of the  receiver. ELPHiC will also soon announce sampling dates for its EML for  224Gb/s applications. “By integrating key optical and electronic elements on the same  InP semiconductor substrate with the analog amplification circuitry, we create  an architectural shift in building optics chipsets that significantly improve  performance and power, lower cost, and reduce module form factor,”  says CEO Jim Hjartarson. “Our patented PIN architecture also allows for  sensitivity levels comparable to those of APDs,” he adds. “The demand for lasers and receivers from module manufacturers of  PON and datacom markets has seen an unprecedented increase over the past three years,”  says Christian Ilmi, VP worldwide sales, who recently joined ELPHiC from the  optical module manufacturing industry. “The recently announced government  funding for PON deployments will add even more pressure to this demand.  ELPHiC’s timing for cheaper and more effective optics could not be better,” he  adds. “Finally, the promise of monolithic integration of optical devices  and electronics is coming to market,” says Joe Costello, chairman of the board and  a Silicon Valley veteran. “With the benefits of ELPHiC’s technology, the  performance of optical links in PON, data centers and other emerging  innovative markets will take a giant leap forward.” 