Lumentum’s 200G PAM4 EMLs win ECOC Data Center Innovation/Best Product Award Lumentum Holdings Inc of San Jose, CA, USA (which designs and  makes optical and photonic products for optical networks and lasers for  industrial and consumer markets) says that its 200G PAM4 externally modulated lasers (EMLs) has  received the Industry Awards for the Data Center  Innovation/Best Product category at the European Conference on  Optical Communication (ECOC 2022) in Basel, Switzerland  (18–22 September). 
Hyperscale  cloud operators need reliable, low-power and low-cost solutions that enable  higher-speed data links within their next-generation data centers.  Lumentum says that its first-to-market 200G PAM4 EMLs leverage 30 years of  technology expertise to deliver industry-leading performance and quality to  data-center operators seeking to scale their data centers for future  needs. “Lumentum has  led the industry through multiple generations of increased intra-data-center  transmission rates leveraging market-leading innovation and exceptional  quality,” claims Wupen Yuen, senior VP & general manager, Datacom.  “We are excited to work with customers and data-center operators to accelerate  their transition to the next generation of switching and architectures with our  200G PAM4 EMLs.” Lumentum  manufactures EMLs in its internal high-volume indium phosphide (InP) wafer  fab in Japan. Its EMLs are photonic integrated circuits that consist of a  distributed feedback laser (DFB) monolithically integrated with an  electro-absorption modulator (EAM), providing a single high-performance laser  transmitter chip. Providing high modulation bandwidth and excellent  extinction ratio, Lumentum’s 200G PAM4 EMLs minimize input voltage swings  to reduce the power consumption of related ICs. They provide what is claimed to  be superior waveform quality for PAM4 and the potential for PAM6 or PAM8  operation, resulting in an even higher transmission capacity than 200G per  wavelength. Lumentum is planning CWDM and LAN-WDM 4-channel support for various  system architecture needs. The 100G PAM4  EMLs are in volume production and already leading the transition to bit rates  of 400G and 800G, says Lumentum. The latest 200G EMLs will enable the  transition to 800G and 1.6T for next-generation data centers. 