BluGlass’ Silicon Valley GaN laser fab now contributing to tech roadmaps BluGlass Ltd of Silverwater, Australia – which  has developed proprietary low-temperature, low-hydrogen remote-plasma chemical  vapor deposition (RPCVD) technology for manufacturing devices such as laser diodes,  next-generation LEDs and micro-LEDs for industrial, defence, display and  scientific markets – says that its Silicon Valley production fab in  Fremont, CA, USA now has several operational manufacturing processes for GaN  laser diode development and is contributing to the firm’s technical  roadmaps. GaN wafers shipped from BluGlass’ Silverwater  (NSW) facility have commenced front- and back-end processing steps in the  Silicon Valley fab, complementing and accelerating its contract  manufacturing development. The fab is also being utilized for short-loop  development cycles, enabling BluGlass to test iterations of the key components  of laser diodes – metals, facets and bonds – without requiring a full  product. These in-house short-loops can be completed many times faster than  processing cycles through contract manufacturers. BluGlass’ Silicon Valley production fab has  now been awarded all requisite regulatory approvals, including US Environment  Protection Authority (EPA), air quality and waste management permits.  Picture: BluGlass’ Silicon Valley GaN laser production fab in Fremont, CA, USA. “Successfully bringing a semiconductor  manufacturing fab online and up-to-speed in a new material class is an  important milestone,” says president Jim Haden. “Our captive fab is now  contributing to our technical roadmaps, enabling us to speed product  development while also reducing our cost base,” he adds. “By bringing core fabrication processes in-house,  we reduce supply chain complexity and improve the quality and consistency  of our laser diodes,” continues Haden. “Each process we bring in-house is the  equivalent of a specialist supplier being integrated into the business –  reducing the complexity of co-ordinating efforts and problem-solving at  multiple locations.” BluGlass says that it is steadily progressing  towards commercial reliability with its 405nm and 420nm single- and multi-mode  devices. 