Coherent’s 400G ZR+ QSFP-DD-DCO transceiver wins ECOC Industry Award for Optical Integration Coherent Corp of Saxonburg, PA, USA, which  provides photonics technology for communications and aerospace & defense  applications, says that its  400G ZR+ QSFP-DD-DCO optical transceiver has won the Industry Award for  Optical Integration at the European Conference on  Optical Communication (ECOC 2022) in Basel, Switzerland  (19–21 September). The 400G ZR+ transceiver’s high transmit output power of 0dBm  enables true IP-over-DWDM deployments in metro and regional optical transport  networks, eliminating an entire layer of optical equipment and thereby  significantly reducing both capital and operational expenditures for network  operators. “This award for optical integration speaks to our ability to  transform line cards into industry-standard pluggable modules,” says chief  marketing officer Dr Sanjai Parthasarathi. “The availability of 400G  with such high output power in a QSFP-DD form factor is a game-changer due  to its compatibility with router interfaces. Now, service providers can  connect routers directly to access, metro and regional optical transport  networks without client interfaces. This IP-over-DWDM network architecture  achieves huge savings in upfront costs and ongoing expenses.” The 400G ZR+ QSFP-DD-DCO transceiver is based on proprietary  indium phosphide (InP) technology, which is an intrinsic enabler of the  transceiver’s 0dBm output power. Furthermore, InP components consume a low  enough amount of power to be suitable for the small QSFP-DD form factor. In March, Windstream Wholesale announced that it had completed  field trials (over a 1000km link between Phoenix and Los Angeles) using  the 400G ZR+ QSFP-DD-DCO transceiver from Coherent. Windstream also  demonstrated transmission over up to 24 cascaded reconfigurable optical  add/drop multiplexers (ROADMs) in a lab environment. Coherent showcased the 400G ZR+ QSFP-DD-DCO transceiver in a live  demonstration at ECOC. Also, at ECOC’s Market Focus, director of product management  Dr Gert Sarlet presented the talk ‘Coherent Optics in Client Pluggable  Form Factor Enables IP-over-DWDM in Disaggregated Transport Networks’. 