Source Photonics’ telecom-grade 400G QSFP-DD and 100G QSFP28 PAM4 products win ECOC Industry Award for Optical Transport At the European Conference on Optical Communications (ECOC 2022)  in Basel, Switzerland (19-21 September), Source Photonics Inc  of West Hills, CA, USA (which  provides optical connectivity products for hyperscale data-center and optical  transmission applications) has won the 2022 Industry Award in the category  of Optical Transport for its family of telecom-grade 400G QSFP-DD and 100G  QSFP28 PAM4 products for dual-rate OTU transmission. ECOC created the fiber communication industry awards in six  categories to put the spotlight on technology and product commercialization  within the industry. The awards recognize and highlight key industry  achievements in advancing optical components, photonic integration, optical  transport, networking, data-center innovation and FTTx access. “The availability of the OTU dual-rate 100G and 400G transceivers  extends the applications of client optics from cloud data centers to  optical transport markets with fast-switching protection, while improving the  link performance and reducing the power consumption at the same time,” says chief  engineer & chief technology officer Dr Frank Chang. “This  represents a significant breakthrough for extending 100G PAM4 technology into  OTN transport area, and this award is a testament of our continued commitment  and leadership position in optical transport market. Now service providers can  connect routers directly to optical transport networks without client  interfaces, and this type of network architecture achieves huge savings in  upfront costs and ongoing expenses,” he adds. In booth #211 at the ECOC exhibition, along with its industry  partners, Source Photonics is showcasing live demonstrations of its 100G QSFP28  and 400G DR4 QSFP-DD OTU dual-rate transceivers running error-free operation  with OTN traffic. “VIAVI Solutions has a long tradition of working with Source  Photonics to help them design, demonstrate and release next-generation  transceiver products to market,” says director, Viavi Lab & Production  Strategy, VIAVI Solutions. “We jointly demonstrate the OTN capabilities at 100G  and 400G PAM4 using VIAVI’s ONT-800 platform. Using the comprehensive traffic  generation and analysis capabilities of the ONT, it demonstrates 400G OTN  traffic can be successfully transmitted over optical fiber using Source Photonics’  client optics, and they fully aligned with the appropriate OTN standards,” he  adds. “We are pleased to partner with Source Photonics to demonstrate  our state-of-art 7nm Centenario 112G PAM-4 DSP operating inside 100G QSFP28  transceivers at OTU rates with fast locking capability,” says Khushrow Machhi,  senior director of marketing of the Physical Layer Products Division at  Broadcom, “Broadcom continues to innovate and drive new requirements of 100G  PAM-4 DSP to satisfy the unrelenting quest for optical transport applications  that will enable the industry-leading 100G PAM4-based modules for service  provider and carrier OTN networks,” he adds. “This is a well-deserved recognition for a company that has long  been at the forefront of optical transport technology and we take great pride  that the company selected the Marvell Porrima PAM4 DSP for its telecom-grade  400G QSFP-DD DR4/FR4 module,” says Xi Wang, VP of marketing, Optical Connectivity  at Marvell. “The Porrima PAM4 DSP delivers unprecedented levels of performance  and power efficiency for both service providers and emerging  performance-centric applications at the network edge. Innovations in optics  continue to play a fundamental role in the evolution of the cloud and we look  forward to further collaboration with Source Photonics,” he adds. “We’re pleased that our SN solutions are featured in their 400G  PAM4 OTN demo at ECOC,” says Yohei Sato, VP of sales, SENKO, “The SN connector  is a perfect fit for 400G QSFP-DD DR4 transceivers that can double transceiver  face-plate density and support the future exponential bandwidth demand in the  service provider market.” “Source Photonics understands what service providers need right  now, and it has responded with high-performance PAM-4 DSP-based transceiver  solutions to meet those needs,” comments Andrew Schmitt, founder &  directing analyst at Cignal AI. “Source Photonics’ PAM-4  technology can extend to support OTN connections outside of the cloud data center  to deliver a highly integrated, cost-effective solution that is easy to  assemble.” 