Source Photonics receives ECOC Industry Award for 50G PAM4 SFP56 transceivers for 5G front-haul wireless deployment At the European Conference on Optical Communications  (ECOC 2022) in Basel, Switzerland (19-21 September), Source Photonics Inc of West Hills,  CA, USA (which provides optical connectivity products for access and  datacom applications) has received the 2022 Industry Award in the category  of Innovative FTTx products. ECOC created the fiber communication industry awards in six  categories to put the spotlight on technology and product commercialization  within the industry. The awards recognize and highlight key industry  achievements in advancing optical components, photonic integration, optical  transport, networking, data-center innovation and innovative FTTx products. To meet the most pressing bandwidth requirements of global 5G customers,  Source Photonics officially released the 50G PAM4 SFP56 product for upgrading  5G front-haul networks from March. The initial products are 50G LR and FR PAM4 transceivers  using analog CDRs, which supports 10km and 2km transmission distances. The 50G  SFP56 achieves 50% port savings by upgrading the rate of one 25Gb/s eCPRI  transceiver to 50Gb/s, creating flexibility for further improvement of wireless  forward bandwidth. This is claimed to be the industry first in product  commercialization to apply PAM4 signaling into analog CDR (clock & data recovery).  The product meets the range of industrial temperature applications with  power consumption of as low as 1.5W. As global operators accelerate the deployment of 5G networks,  promote the differentiated application of 5G multi-services and release more  spectrum resources, 5G networks present higher bandwidth requirements for  front-haul. Source Photonics has subsequently extended the SFP56 product  portfolio to cover 50GBASE-LR, 50GBASE-ER, 50GBASE-BR10, 50G CWDM6,  50GBASE-BR40 and other optical interfaces. The application scenarios range from  10km to 40km, from dual fiber to single fiber with bi-directional  transmission and from multiple rate support for backward compatibility  with prior generations of 25G SFP28 and 10G SFP+ optical transceivers. The product series use the 25G DFB (distributed feedback) laser  developed in house by Source Photonics to provide low power consumption,  short latency, and cost-effective transceiver solutions for 5G front-haul  networks. Source Photonics says that it has conducted in-depth cooperation with  the world’s leading 5G equipment manufacturers, and that qualification has been  progressing smoothly. The initial deployment of SFP56 is expected to ramp up  volume in 2023. Source Photonics’ product portfolio of SFP56 transceivers for 5G  front-haul includes: In booth #211 at the ECOC exhibition, Source Photonics is  showcasing a live demonstration of its full family of 50G SFP56 transceivers  with Multilane’s ML4079E BERT platform. 