VCSEL market to grow at 19.2% CAGR from $1.6bn in 2022 to $3.9bn in 2027 According to Yole Intelligence’s annual ‘VCSEL – Market and Technology Trends 2022’ report, the vertical-cavity  surface-emitting laser (VCSEL) market is reckoned to have almost doubled  since 2018. Furthermore, it should rise at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 19.2% from $1.6bn in 2022 to $3.9bn in 2027. In  particular, by application during 2022-2027, the datacom sector should grow at a  CAGR of 22.2% from $782m to $2.1bn (regaining its supremacy in 2023 and  dominating the market), while mobile & consumer grows at a 15.7% CAGR from  $840m to $1.7bn.  In the past, the VCSEL market was driven  by the datacom sector, the technology’s first volume application. In November  2017, Apple released the iPhone X, embedding VCSELs for face recognition,  which changed the game. In 2018, mobile and consumer became the largest market  for VCSELs, reaching $440m. Other smartphone makers soon joined this trend, but  then stopped using these components a few years later in favor of under-screen  fingerprint sensors. Apple remains almost the only player integrating VCSELs. The VCSEL ecosystem has changed  drastically since 2017, when the market was an oligopoly (dominated mainly by  Lumentum, though several other players had significant market shares). By 2022,  the VCSEL ecosystem had become a duopoly, with Lumentum and II-VI collectively  taking 80% market share.  So, what happened during those five  years? Lumentum was the only supplier qualified by Apple at that time. Finisar  was still in R&D and struggling to qualify products for Apple. Other  players were involved with other smartphone makers or supplying VCSELs for  proximity sensors. Then, Coherent (formerly II-VI) acquired Finisar. Lumentum  and II-VI are still the only players qualified by Apple for 3D sensing. At the same time, the leaders also  acquired other companies, such as Oclaro and Coherent, amongst several others.  This reinforced their positions in the optical communication market, vertically  integrating from the VCSEL device to the entire transceiver module. Two major changes are expected in the  coming years. In May, IQE demonstrated its first 8” wafers based on germanium  instead of gallium arsenide (GaAs). These may not be needed to  answer a sudden rise in VCSEL demand but to make possible the integration of  photonics devices with CMOS technology. It also gives a potential roadmap  toward 12” wafer  manufacturing in the long term. The second major change is the use of dilute nitride active layers to shift the emission wavelength from 940nm to  1380nm, which is needed to enable the integration of VCSELs behind organic light-emitting diode (OLED) displays (which are transparent at this wavelength). “The iPhone 14 Pro, which was presented in September 2022, embeds a proximity sensor  under the display but it could use a laser diode and InGaAs [indium gallium arsenide] photodetector based on InP substrate waiting dilute nitride technology for VCSELs to be ready,” says Pierrick Boulay. “As expected, the  first long-wavelength application is a proximity sensor under the display,  reducing the notch size on iPhones. Further 3D sensing applications could happen later”. 