Seoul’s Violeds UV-C disinfection applied to Genesis G90 sedan Seoul Viosys offers optimized  disinfection solutions, operating its own auto lab. 
UV-C LED lamps incorporating Violeds disinfection technology,  developed by South Korean LED maker Seoul  Semiconductor Co Ltd, have been installed in the armrest  console box in the back of luxury sedan car maker Genesis’ new model G90  (launched in first-half 2022) in order to disinfect passengers’ belongings (in  the aftermath of the COVID-19 era).  Picture: Violeds UV-C LEDs applied in the armrest  console box of the Genesis G90. Depending on its models, 6-12 LED lamps are installed, eliminating  up to 99.9% of harmful germs (E.coli, staphylococcus aureus, and pneumobacilli)  in personal possessions within 10 minutes  after the lid is closed (according to test results from Genesis’ parent firm Hyundai  Motor Company, validated by global testing and certification agency Intertek). Violeds is a patented UV LED  solution to prevent the growth of germs and bacteria that was developed and  applied by Seoul Semiconductor’s subsidiary Seoul Viosys.  According to 2021 data from market research  agency Omdia, Seoul Viosys ranks first in the world in UV LED technology. Seoul Viosys has developed air-sterilization solutions, as well as  Violeds-based surface disinfection systems. In August 2021, the firm unveiled  its solution to prevent the spread of the delta variant,  since it is able to remove 99% of indoor airborne viruses. Based on the test  results, at January’s Consumer Electronics Show (CES 2022) in Las Vegas the  firm demonstrated the process of disinfecting auto air-conditioning systems. “Operating our own auto air and surface sterilization lab, we have  done our utmost to further develop UV LED disinfection technology,” says Seoul  Semiconductor. “Acquiring the AEC-Q102 certification (the automotive LED  reliability standard), Violeds technology will become an optimized solution for  auto healthcare projects required by clients.” 