AlixLabs granted second US patent for Atomic Layer Etch Pitch  Splitting (APS) After being granted its first US patent (US10930515) on in February 2021,  AlixLabs AB of Lund, Sweden was recently (on 23 August)  granted its second patent (US11424130)  by the US Patent Office for  nanofabrication using its Atomic Layer Etch Pitch Splitting (APS)  technique, a new method for  manufacturing semiconductor components with a high degree of packing,  eliminating several steps in the manufacturing process. The patent covers methods to split  nanostructures in half by a single process step using atomic layer etching (ALE). “Our key technology is based on a  surprising discovery that sidewalls act as a topographical mask in atomic layer etch processes,” notes  chief technology officer & co-founder Dr Dmitry Suyatin. “This  technology has been proven for such different materials as gallium phosphide  (GaP), silicon (Si) and tantalum nitride (TaN) – all being critical  materials to the semiconductor and optoelectronic industry,” he adds. AlixLabs says that the  method can have a significant impact on the semiconductor industry by enabling  sustainable scaling of electronic components and shrink chip designs further in  a cost-effective way. The method is complementary for single-exposure immersion  and extreme ultraviolet (EUV) lithography and corresponding multiple patterning  technologies like self-aligned double and quadruple patterning (SADP and SAQP,  respectively) as well as multiple exposure lithography-etch and directed  self-assembly (DSA). It is hence reckoned that APS can make components cheaper and less  resource-intensive to manufacture, and open up a new path for more sustainable  mass production of electronic products. It also makes it possible to  manufacture semiconductor components accurately and efficiently with manageable  wafer fab equipment investments. “ALixLabs has been finalized a SEK1m Vinnova-funded  project to verify the APS technology in the fabrication and electrical  characterization of nanowire test transistor architectures this summer,” notes  R&D & operation manager Dr Amin Karimi. “The strategy as we advance is to successfully transfer the APS  technology to 300mm wafer processing and making it readily available for  process demonstration for the leading IDMs and foundries,” states CEO &  co-founder Dr Jonas Sundqvist. “We don’t only  hope to cut cost in semiconductor manufacturing but also to reduce the energy  and clean water demand and output of greenhouse gases during chip  manufacturing considerably.” “We have more patent applications in the pipeline,” concludes Suyatin. 