Coherent launches 200G InP EMLs for high-speed data-center  transceivers Coherent Corp of Saxonburg, PA, USA, which  provides photonics technology for communications and aerospace & defense  applications, has launched its  200Gbps indium phosphide (InP)  electro-absorption modulated lasers (EMLs) for high-speed data-center  transceivers. The growing demand for 400G and 800G transceivers and the  anticipated demand for next-generation 1.6Tbps transceivers for  intra-data-center communications are rapidly driving a technology shift toward  advanced EML devices that maintain transmission reach at higher bit rates. Coherent says that its EML devices  are designed for high reliability and high signal integrity,  enabling transceiver modules operating at data rates  of 800Gbps (with 4 lanes) and  1.6Tbps (with 8 lanes) for the  explosive growth in high-speed data-center connectivity. “We developed a high-performance EML chip with a monolithically  integrated electro-absorption modulator and laser that can be mounted in a  low-cost non-hermetic package. This design provides our customers with the most  advanced, robust and cost-competitive laser devices for their 800G and next-gen  1.6T datacom transceiver designs,” says Dr Karlheinz  Gulden, senior VP, Laser Components  & Subsystems business unit. “Our  world-class and highly reliable InP technology platform is one of the very few  in the industry that has been proven, with more than 100 million lasers in the field deployed over the last decades.  The new EML devices enable the 800Gbps transceivers of today and the 1.6Tbps  transceivers of tomorrow.” Coherent’s portfolio of InP components includes  application-specific Fabry-Pérot lasers, directly modulated lasers (DMLs) and  tunable lasers. It also includes photodiodes for high-speed receivers and power  monitoring. Coherent is exhibiting in booth #1 at the European Conference on  Optical Communication (ECOC 2022) in Basel, Switzerland  (19–21 September), showcasing the most recent additions to its portfolio  of solutions for telecom and datacom optical networks, including giving live  technology demonstrations. 