Ancora raises NT$456m from ROHM, SAS,  uPI and Delta Fabless design company Ancora Semiconductor Inc, an affiliate  of Taiwan-headquartered power supply maker Delta Electronics Inc  that focuses on gallium nitride (GaN) devices and their integration, has  raised NT$456m in first-round funding from  strategic investors Japan-based  power semiconductor maker ROHM Co Ltd, SAS  (Sino-American Silicon Products Inc) of Hsinchu, Taiwan, Taiwan-based IC  design house  uPI Semiconductor Corp, and Delta Electronics. The funding is  expected to accelerate Ancora’s GaN technology development. “GaN is the future of power electronics, with benefits of faster  switching frequencies, higher efficiency, and lower  energy consumption. The ecosystem of GaN technology is evolving rapidly as  applications are continuously emerging,” says president Dr T.K. Shing.  “We are thrilled to have ROHM, SAS and uPI as our strategic partners and  investors. We are also grateful for the commitment by our parent company Delta,  a leader in power and thermal management technologies and global provider  of smart energy-saving solutions,” he adds. “This powerful alliance will enable  us to establish an ecosystem with strong partners in substrate materials, IC  design, applications and system solutions, to expedite the adoption of GaN  technology that promises unprecedented performance value.” Ancora’s product line includes GaN discrete components,  system-in-package (SiP) and system-on-chip (SoC). Delta’s commitment to provide  a wide range of smart energy-saving solutions that leverage its core competence  in high-efficiency power electronics is expected to provide additional momentum  and fuel Ancora’s long-term growth. Also, the alliance and capital raising is  expected to enable Ancora to increase production capability to serve the  growing demand for GaN devices in consumer electronics, telecom and automotive  applications. The ultimate goal is to maximize GaN performance to accelerate  power technology innovation and contribute to achieve sustainable development  based on energy efficiency. 