Odyssey achieves 1200V rating on vertical GaN power devices Odyssey Semiconductor Technologies Inc of  Ithaca, NY, USA, which is developing high-voltage vertical power switching  components based on proprietary gallium nitride (GaN) processing  technology, says that it has  reached its stated goal of 1200V rating on vertical GaN power field-effect  transistors (FETs). The firm is now applying this validated technology to  fabricate product samples in fourth-quarter 2022 for internal and customer  evaluations, planned through first-quarter 2023. Recently accomplished  milestones are cited as: “We are emerging from process and materials R&D to delivering  products at voltages that lateral GaN can’t practically reach with economics  unattainable by silicon and silicon carbide,”  says CEO Mark Davidson. “Our vertical GaN products will deliver high power conversion efficiency at almost 10x  smaller than a silicon carbide transistor  for the same application,” he adds. “We are not just fabricating test structures. We’re building  product samples that customers need,” continues Davidson. “Odyssey continues to  close new commitments for product samples as customers gain a full  understanding of the capabilities of Odyssey’s power devices. The company is  uniquely positioned with the expertise and the IP portfolio to protect it. And  with our own foundry in Ithaca, New York,  we can innovate quickly and control our ability to supply products to customers.” Odyssey says that the market it is pursuing is large and fast  growing. It  claims that its approach to vertical GaN can offer an even greater improvement  that silicon, silicon carbide (SiC) and lateral  GaN cannot deliver. The 650V segment is the larger market  today, expected to grow at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 20%. But the  1200V product market segment is expected to grow faster (at 63% CAGR), becoming  the larger market segment in the second half of this decade. Collectively, the  650V and 1200V power device market  is expected to grow at a combined CAGR of 40% to about $5bn in 2027, according  to market analyst firm Yole Développement. 