BluGlass joins  UCSB’s Solid-State Lighting & Energy Electronics Center consortium BluGlass Ltd of Silverwater, Australia – which has developed  proprietary low-temperature, low-hydrogen remote-plasma chemical vapor  deposition (RPCVD) technology for manufacturing devices such as laser diodes,  next-generation LEDs and micro-LEDs for industrial, defence, display and  scientific markets – has joined the University of California,  Santa Barbara’s (UCSB) Solid-State Lighting & Energy Electronics  Center (SSLEEC) consortium, recognizing the firm’s innovation in RPCVD epitaxy  growth, novel laser architectures, and longer-wavelength gallium nitride  (GaN) devices. The SSLEEC is an  invitation-only collaboration between industry leaders and UCSB’s GaN  researchers, including blue LED  inventor and Nobel Laureate  professor Shuji Nakamura and professor Steven DenBaars. The consortium focuses  on the development of new semiconductor technologies for energy-efficient  lighting, disinfection, advanced mobile displays, augmented and virtual  reality, communication, and power electronics. The SSLEEC works in  collaboration and across scientific disciplines to address the most challenging  problems in critical and timely areas of research. The SSLEEC has  been researching materials growth, simulation, characterization, device design  and fabrication for high-efficiency LEDs and laser diodes  for more than 15 years. It is said  to be one of the most successful business models between universities and  industry partners in the sector, producing more than 150 patents over the past  six years. Consortium  membership provides BluGlass with access to UCSB’s faculty, facilities and  specialist GaN researchers, which is expected to be invaluable in accelerating  product development roadmaps for its  blue and green laser diodes.  Photo:  BluGlass president Jim Haden (center) with professor Steven DenBaars  (left) and professor Shuji Nakamura (right), with several SSLEEC post-docs,  including BluGlass laser diode scientist  Ryan Anderson (far left). “We are delighted  to be invited to join the world’s leading GaN industry and academic consortium,  which is a testament to the cutting-edge development being conducted at  BluGlass,” says the firm’s president Jim Haden. “Our membership enables us to  leverage the expertise of industry pioneers Drs Shuji Nakamura and Steven  DenBaars; and to fast-track our advanced product roadmaps. It also enhances our  credibility with potential customers and partners, reinforcing our expertise in  GaN laser diodes,” he adds. “I believe that  RPCVD technology has huge advantages for the next generation of GaN advanced  semiconductor devices,” comments Nakamura. 