Coherent wins DARPA  contract to develop coherent optical transceivers  for Space-BACN program Coherent Corp of  Saxonburg, PA, USA, which provides photonics technology for  communications and aerospace & defense applications, has won a contract to  develop coherent optical transceiver  technology for the Space-Based Adaptive Communications Node (Space-BACN) program of the US Defense Advanced  Research Projects Agency (DARPA). The aim of  Space-BACN is to create low-cost, high-speed, reconfigurable laser-based data links that will enable communications  between various government and private-sector low-Earth-orbit (LEO) satellite  constellations. Various  incompatible and often proprietary optical inter-satellite links (OISLs)  prevent LEO satellite arrays from readily sharing information, keeping  proliferated space from reaching its full potential. Coherent is specifically  tasked with designing and fabricating coherent optical transceivers for a  reconfigurable modem compatible with most existing single-wavelength  communications protocols and able to readily adapt to work with new waveforms  as they are introduced. The goal is to support multiple optical waveforms at  total data rates of up to 100Gbps on  a single wavelength, while simultaneously meeting stringent size, weight, power  and cost (SWaP-C) constraints. “Advances in  digital technology, together with falling launch costs, have made it possible  for many groups to launch ‘constellations’ of compact satellites possessing a  multitude of capabilities, enabled by high-speed laser communications,” notes  Dr Chris Koeppen chief technology officer. “Beyond just defense  applications, these satellite arrays offer tremendous potential for low-cost  global communications, sensing, imaging, space exploration, and more.” The current award  to Coherent is a Phase 1 contract  within Technical Area 2 (TA2) of the SpaceBACN development  program. TA2 is focused on modem architecture. Coherent already participated in  Phase 0 of TA2, which involved  developing the architectural design for these components, and was selected for  Phase 1 based on the success of that  work. 