MACOM appoints Jihye Whang Rosenband to board MACOM Technology Solutions Inc of Lowell,  MA, USA (which designs and makes analog RF, microwave, millimeter-wave and  photonic semiconductors, components and subassemblies) has appointed Jihye Whang Rosenband as an independent  director to its board of directors, serving on its Audit and Nominating &  Governance Committees. Her appointment is the culmination of a search process  led by the board’s Nominating and Governance Committee, which involved over a  dozen potential candidates. Rosenband has over 20 years of semiconductor and technology  industry experience in various advisory, management and engineering roles. Most  recently, she was CEO of SPGL Acquisition Corporation.  She has been an independent advisor to various companies in the semiconductor  and information technology sectors since 2017. Earlier in her career, Rosenband  served in various corporate strategy, business development and engineering  roles at HPE Aruba Networks, RPX Corp,  MACOM and Hittite Microwave Corp.  She holds a B.S. and M. Eng. in  Electrical Science and Engineering from Massachusetts Institute of Technology  and an MBA from Stanford University. “Jihye has outstanding business acumen and her extensive  experience in compound semiconductors,  as well as in the hardware and information technology  industries, will greatly benefit our board,” comments chairman John Ocampo.  “She has an established track record of success at both management and  executive levels, and we look forward to her future contributions.” MACOM also announced that independent director Gil VanLunsen will  be retiring from its board, effective 31 January  2023. VanLunsen has served as a director on the board since August 2010. During  his 12-year tenure, he has provided leadership and insights on accounting,  financial and governance matters. “I would like to express my sincere gratitude  and thanks to Gil for his many contributions to MACOM and I congratulate him on  his distinguished career,” comments Ocampo. “Gil’s leadership and steady  guidance have been instrumental to our growth and to the creation of  stockholder value.” 