Nvidia ‘Working Closely With US Govt’ so China Chips Meet Curbs CEO Huang said the group’s plan “is to continue to work with the government to come up with a new set of products that comply with the new regulations that have certain limits”. CEO Huang said the group’s plan “is to continue to work with the government to come up with a new set of products that comply with the new regulations that have certain limits”.  Nvidia continues to play its cards close to its chest about artificial intelligence chips it is making for customers in China. Company CEO Jensen Huang met with media in Singapore on Wednesday after a strong warning to US chipmakers from US Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo on Saturday that China must not get access to advanced AI chips. Huang said simply that the group is working closely with the US government to ensure its new chips for the Chinese market are compliant with export curbs.   The California-based artificial intelligence chip designer has commanded more than a 90% share of China’s $7 billion AI chip market, but analysts have said new US curbs on chip exports are likely to create opportunities for Chinese rivals to make inroads. Reuters reported last month that Nvidia had told customers in China it was delaying the launch of a new China-focused AI chip until the first quarter of next year, but Huang declined to confirm the article. “Nvidia has been working very closely with the US government to create products that comply with its regulations,” Huang told a news conference in Singapore. “Our plan now is to continue to work with the government to come up with a new set of products that comply with the new regulations that have certain limits.” He added Nvidia needs to seek the advice of the market and the process is ongoing, adding that Huawei was a “formidable” competitor. Nvidia warned during its November earnings that it expects a steep drop in fourth-quarter sales in China in the wake of the new US rules. Huang noted that China’s revenue contribution to Nvidia has been traditionally around 20% but it was hard to predict how much that would change with the new US export restrictions. Separately, he said Nvidia was in talks with Singapore about potential big investments and working with the city-state to help develop its own large language model, Sealion. Singapore’s Infocomm Media Development Authority (IMDA) announced on Monday a S$70 million ($52 million) initiative to develop Southeast Asia’s first large language model. Huang noted Singapore had a vibrant AI ecosystem and its role as a major data centre for many Asian markets.           