X-FAB expands IHP collaboration by licensing 130nm SiGe  BiCMOS Analog/mixed-signal, micro-electro-mechanical  system (MEMS) and specialty semiconductor foundry X-FAB  Silicon Foundries SE of Tessenderlo, Belgium has announced a further  expansion of its long-standing partnership with German government-funded IHP -  Leibniz Institute for High Performance Microelectronics of Frankfurt  (Oder). As part of a new agreement, X-FAB will now license IHP’s silicon germanium  (SiGe) technology, so the performance benefits of this technology can be  brought to high-volume customers. Significantly strengthening the X-FAB technology  portfolio, the newly created 130nm platform provides what is said to be a  unique solution attaining the elevated performance parameters needed to address  next-generation communication requirements. Examples of areas benefiting from  the technology include Wi-Fi 6 (and future Wi-Fi 7) access points, plus next-generation cellular  infrastructure (in particular 5G mmW  and emerging 6G standards) and vehicle-to-vehicle (V2V) communication. This  technology will also be pivotal in the development of +100GHz radar systems, it  is reckoned, for use in both automotive and consumer applications. The license agreement follows on from the  collaborative work that began in 2021, where X-FAB’s copper back-end was added  to IHP’s SG13S and SG13G2 front-end technologies to boost the bandwidth figures  that could be supported. In relation to this SiGe platform, X-FAB is set to  start engaging with selected early adopters on prototyping  projects during fourth-quarter 2022. An early-access process design  kit (PDK) is available, enabling prototyping,  while volume manufacturing will occur at  X-FAB France, the company’s facility  near Paris. “The incorporation of IHP’s HBTs [heterojunction  bipolar transistors] into X-FAB’s RF platform will provide customers with a  truly differentiated SiGe BiCMOS [bipolar complementary  metal-oxide-semiconductor] technology that is certain to bring tangible  performance benefits,” believes IHP’s scientific director professor  Gerhard Kahmen. “The technology transfer between our two organizations is a  perfect example of how industry and research institutions can work together to  achieve outstanding results,” he adds. “X-FAB and IHP have a successful track record of  combining our respective resources to develop advanced semiconductor solutions,  and this latest SiGe announcement takes that on to a whole new exciting phase,”  says X-FAB’s RF technology director Dr Greg U’Ren. “This is the  starting point for us to make further SiGe BiCMOS-related innovations that will  contribute to defining the communications sector in the years ahead, covering  industrial automation, consumer and automotive use cases.” 