Wolfspeed to build largest SiC materials plant in Chatham County, North Carolina Wolfspeed Inc (formerly Cree Inc) of  Durham, NC, USA is to build a  new multi-billion-dollar materials manufacturing facility in Chatham County,  North Carolina (strategically near its existing Durham materials  factory). The investment should generate a more than tenfold increase  from Wolfspeed’s existing silicon carbide  (SiC) production capacity in Durham, supporting its long-term growth strategy,  accelerating the adoption of silicon carbide  across a wide array of end-markets. “Wolfspeed is  the industry leader in supplying the materials required to meet the  accelerating demand for next-generation semiconductors and creating a more  sustainable future for all,” claims Wolfspeed’s president & CEO Gregg Lowe.  “Demand for our products continues to grow at a rapid pace, and the industry  continues to be supply constrained. Expanding our materials production will  further our market leadership and allow us to better serve the growing needs of  our customers,” he adds. “We are particularly excited and proud to not only  expand Wolfspeed’s footprint in our home state of North Carolina, but also further our relationship with North Carolina Agricultural and Technical State  University to nurture our best-in-class talent pool.” The facility  will primarily produce 200mm silicon carbide  wafers, which are 1.7x larger than 150mm wafers, translating into more chips  per wafer and, ultimately, lower device costs. These wafers will be used to  supply Wolfspeed’s Mohawk Valley  Fab, which opened in April as the world’s first, largest and only fully  automated 200mm silicon carbide  fabrication facility.  Phase one construction should be completed in  2024 and cost about $1.3bn. Between 2024 and the end of the decade, the firm  will add extra capacity as needed, eventually occupying more than 1 million square feet on the 445-acre site. State and  local funding, including a Job Development  Investment Grant from the North Carolina  Department of Commerce, will support the development of the facility’s first  phase and represents an approximately $1bn incentive package from the State, County  and local governments. In addition, the firm hopes to apply for and obtain  federal funding from the CHIPS and Science Act to accelerate the  construction and build-out of the facility. Over the next eight years, the company intends to continue to  invest, looking to create about 1800 jobs. “Wolfspeed’s  decision further validates North Carolina  as the epicenter of clean energy,” says North Carolina  Governor Roy Cooper. “This is another milestone in our drive toward a clean energy economy as it will boost electric vehicle manufacturing and offshore wind  while fighting climate change.” The company’s  talent development strategy is complemented by its continued partnership with  North Carolina Agricultural and  Technical State University (N.C. A&T).  In 2020, Wolfspeed committed $4m over five years  to the HBCU – at the time, the single largest donation in the university’s  history, to create the Wolfspeed Endowed Scholars  Program. The two entities aim to establish comprehensive education and training  curricula and cutting-edge research and innovation programs. This partnership  will open up opportunities for undergraduate and graduate credentials in  silicon carbide manufacturing, as  well as training and career advancement programs for existing semiconductor  manufacturing workers. “North  Carolina A&T is proud to partner with Wolfspeed to provide new  opportunities to pursue the next generation of careers in the green economy,  drive innovation and explore new possibilities,” says N.C. A&T chancellor Harold L. Martin senior.  “Throughout our rich history as a doctoral, land-grant university and the  largest historically Black university in the country, we have believed in the  power of our students to change the world. Our expanded partnership with  Wolfspeed will allow us to change the world together.” 