Clas-SiC qualifies Oxford Instruments’ contactless SiC plasma epi-prep Oxford Instruments Plasma Technology  (OIPT) of Yatton, near Bristol, UK recently announced the launch of its silicon carbide (SiC) substrate contactless plasma polishing solution to supersede the  established chemical mechanical  planarization (CMP) process with a clean, dry, lower-cost, higher-yield and  sustainable alternative. The project has now taken a step forward through  collaborating with Clas-SiC Wafer Fab Ltd of Lochgelly, Fife, Scotland, UK and qualifying whole-wafer 1200V MOSFET  devices, further boosting confidence in the new solution and its impact on SiC  power semiconductor  devices. “The 1200V MOSFET parametric results and yield are very  encouraging, being very comparable to those of conventionally CMP-prepared  wafers which were used as a direct comparison,” comments Clas-SiC’s technology  & customer relations  manager David Clark. “We rely on multiple vendors for substrates due to supply  limitations, so incoming material variability is a challenge across the device  manufacture industry. The fact that substrates were sourced, processed at  Oxford Instruments,  incorporated into our production flow on two separate device types and achieved  such comparable results so soon should give Oxford Instruments confidence that their process  window is robust and fit for purpose,” he adds. “For a first result this is a  hugely positive outcome and gives confidence that Oxford Instrument’s new technology has a great  future in reducing the cost of the very expensive incoming SiC substrates. This  will be very important in reducing the cost of SiC-based power converters and in increasing their  adoption in the marketplace.” Demand currently exceeds supply for SiC substrates, and the  wide-bandgap semiconductors that are manufactured on the substrates are also in  short supply. This production gap is set to increase exponentially, as  high-growth electric vehicle  (EV) and sustainable energy markets incorporate ever increasing amounts of  these compound semiconductors  into their applications, so new solutions are needed. Oxford Instruments says that plasma polishing is a  plug-and-play alternative to CMP that straightaway reduces the cost per wafer  with reduced operating expenditure (OpEx), but is also a key enabling  technology to accelerate the transition to thinner slices and more wafers per  boule at wafer diameters of 150mm and 200mm. This, and other innovative SiC  technologies, have the potential to shift the production paradigm, reckons  OIPT, so that SiC supply chains can comfortably support high-growth technology markets in a  sustainable way.  Picture: Clas-SiC’s  micro-pipe density (MPD) device yield data. Oxford Instruments is sharing full-wafer MOSFET performance data  at the 19th International Conference on Silicon Carbide and Related  Materials (ICSCRM 2022) in  Davos, Switzerland (11-16 September), where there will also be an opportunity to speak in  person at the event to discuss implementing plasma polish in high-volume  manufacturing fabs. To prearrange an in-person meeting, contact  Brian.Dlugosch@oxinst.com (VP of strategic production markets, Oxford  Instruments Plasma Technology). 