OIF members showcasing interoperability for critical networking technologies at ECOC In booth#701 during the European Conference on  Optical Communication (ECOC 2022) in Basel,  Switzerland (19-21 September),  the Optical  Internetworking Forum (OIF) is hosting the largest ever interoperability  showcase, with nearly 30 member companies participating in demonstrations in  four critical areas: 400ZR optics, co-packaging architectures, Common Electrical  I/O (CEI) architectures and Common Management Interface Specification (CMIS)  implementations. OIF experts will also participate in  the Market Focus program at ECOC, discussing its work in CMIS in one session,  which defines current and future generations of management control for optical  and copper modules, and a second session addressing the successful development  of 400ZR optics, and OIF’s work to define 800ZR/LR. “The high level of participation in  this year’s interoperability demonstration at ECOC demonstrates the global  importance of OIF’s work and the collective efforts of its members to showcase  how their solutions establish an ecosystem and work together to drive  implementation of next-generation capabilities,” says Mike Klempa of Alphawave  IP Group,  and chair of the OIF Physical & Link Layer Interoperability Working Group. The interoperable optical networking  solutions demo — live and static — at ECOC will feature 28 OIF member companies  (a record number of participants): Alphawave IP; Amphenol; Applied  Optoelectronics Inc; Cadence Design Systems; Ciena; Cisco; Corning; Credo;  EXFO; Fujitsu Optical Components; Juniper Networks Inc; Keysight  Technologies; Lumentum; Marvell; MaxLinear Inc; Microchip Technology Inc;  Molex; MultiLane Inc; Nokia; O-Net Communications; Senko Advanced Components Inc;  Sumitomo Electric Industries Ltd.; Synopsys Inc; TE Connectivity;  US Conec; VIAVI Solutions Inc; Wilder Technologies; and Yamaichi  Electronics. OIF’s 400ZR project is proving  successful in facilitating new and simplified architectures for high-bandwidth  inter-datacenter interconnects and promoting interoperability among coherent  optical module manufacturers. This 400ZR interop demo shows a full  implementation across an 80km DWDM ecosystem using multiple form-factor  pluggable modules, 400GbE routers, a 75GHz C-band open line system, and test  equipment solutions from multiple vendors. The demo provides evidence of  widescale 400ZR deployment readiness based on a broad ecosystem of  interoperable solutions. While individual companies consider  options to optimize power and density, OIF has seen the need to lead industry  standardization discussions for co-packaging architectures that promise to  reduce power consumption and increase bandwidth edge density. OIF is leading  the industry’s interoperability discussions for co-packaging solutions and will  showcase its progress with multi-party demonstrations of its 3.2T Module  project and External Laser Small Form Factor Pluggable project  (ELSFP). A variety of interoperable components that enable co-packaging will be  shown, along with a system implementation. OIF says that it played a lead role in  moving the industry to the next generation by developing electrical interface  specifications for 112Gbps per differential pair. Multiple live demonstrations  featuring interoperability amongst 14 participating members prove the critical  role that OIF serves as well as the developing supplier ecosystem. The CEI-112G  demonstrations in the OIF booth will feature multi-party silicon supplier  interoperability over various channels, including mated compliance boards, PCB  channels, direct attach copper cable channels, a cabled backplane and  even fiber. Each configuration demonstrates the technical viability of 112Gbps  operation, along with multiple industry form factors, including OSFP and  QSFP-DD. The demo also shows a measured far-end eye diagram on an  oscilloscope with analysis to show an example of the silicon signal integrity  that is typically required going through the large variety of channels on  display. OIF says that, as the industry looks  forward to higher data rates and increased throughput for the next  generation of systems based on 224Gbps per lane, new specifications and  technologies will be required. OIF, where the optical networking industry’s  interoperability work gets done, is leading the charge on 224G hardware  interconnection application spaces and definitions, unveiling publicly at ECOC  the first live 224G demo. The Common Management Interface  Specification (CMIS) is now established as the management interface of choice  for next-generation pluggable modules, capable of managing both simple and  advanced modules. CMIS provides a well-defined common mechanism to initialize  and manage optical and copper modules while still providing the ability to support  custom functionality. This commonality makes integration into different host  platforms easier for both the host vendor and the module vendor. The CMIS demo  consists of four separate demonstrations that show how modules can be managed  and initialized, how modules can support multiple independent services  (breakout) and how module firmware can be easily upgraded. 20 September  (4:10-4:30pm) - ‘CMIS – Management  control of optical modules’ by Gary  Nicholl, Cisco, OIF Physical & Link Layer Working Group  Management co-vice chair, secretary/treasurer and board member. 
  CMIS addresses the industry’s need for  commonality in managing pluggable modules, and it has been widely and  successfully adopted across the industry. As the complexity of pluggable  modules continues to increase and the industry continues a trend towards  third-party pluggable modules, the management interface is becoming as  important an interoperability interface as the electrical and optical  interfaces (where the OIF has been actively involved for many years). This  session provides a high-level overview of CMIS, explains the reasons why the  effort was transferred to the OIF, discusses the current status of CMIS within  the OIF and highlights some of the new CMIS features that the OIF will be  working on during the upcoming year, such as adding support for co-packaging/External Laser  Small Form Factor Pluggable (ELSFP) projects and electrical link  training. 21 September  (12-12:25pm) - ‘Deployment of 400ZR and  the ongoing OIF work to define 800ZR/LR’ by Karl Gass, OIF Physical & Link  Layer Working Group Optical vice chair. 
  400ZR coherent deployment is underway,  showing that a strong ecosystem already exists for this new interoperable  standard developed by the OIF. In this presentation, an OIF expert will give an  overview of 400ZR and discuss its deployment status, including continued  optimization. The presentation then gives an overview of current 800ZR and  800LR technical work to create the next core network architecture components  and bring coherent networking into the data center. 