Altum RF launches 400W S-band power amplifier MMIC In collaboration with Eindhoven-based research institute TNO  (the Netherlands Organization for Applied Scientific Research in Delft), Altum RF (which  designs high-performance RF to millimeter-wave solutions for commercial and  industrial applications), has  introduced a 400W S-band power amplifier monolithic microwave integrated circuit (MMIC), using  the NP45-11 technology of compound semiconductor  wafer foundry WIN Semiconductors Corp of Taoyuan City, Taiwan. Operating at 2.8-3.3GHz, the amplifier delivers output power of 400W and  power-added efficiency (PAE) of 50-55% and is suited to S-band radar  applications. WIN’s NP45-11 process is a 0.45μm RF gallium nitride on silicon carbide (GaN-on-SiC)  high-electron-mobility transistor (HEMT) technology manufactured with enhanced  moisture protection, enabling the use of a plastic package. Altum RF’s strategic relationship with TNO  results in what are said to be leading-edge RF to millimeter-wave products and  technology for commercial markets and applications. This collaboration allows  Altum RF to commercialize some of TNO’s unique technical capabilities. “We are looking forward to industrializing  this innovative S-band technology, and we see this as a logical extension of  our catalog,” says Niels  Kramer, Altum RF managing director Europe  & VP marketing.  “Altum RF  continues its strategic focus to expand our product portfolio from X-band and  beyond,” he adds. “Building on more than 30 years of  leading-edge phased-array HPA[high-power amplifier] research, it is impressive  to see the outstanding performance this S-band power amplifier can achieve,  using WIN Semiconductors’ advanced GaN technology, and we are equally excited  about the ability to commercialize it with Altum RF,” comments Kemo  Agovic, market director Information and Sensor Systems at TNO. “We expect even  more innovations in the future with this solid strategic partnership,” he adds. “Both Altum RF and TNO have  extensive experience using WIN’s compound semiconductor technologies to achieve  market-leading performance, and we are delighted to be the RF GaN technology partner  for this new product,” says David Danzilio, WIN’s senior VP, technology & strategic marketing. 