Selective-area p-doping by Mg implant then UHP anneal yields kV-class, low-ON-resistance vertical GaN junction barrier Schottky By using a unique technique for doping gallium nitride (GaN)  in a controlled way, researchers at North Carolina State University (NC State)  and spin-off Adroit Materials Inc of Cary, NC, USA plus the Institute of  High-Pressure Physics at the Polish Academy of Sciences have created new  high-power electronic devices that are said to be more energy efficient than  previous technologies (Khachariya et  al, ‘Vertical GaN Junction Barrier  Schottky Diodes with Near-ideal Performance using Mg Implantation Activated by Ultra-High-Pressure  Annealing’, Applied Physics Express; DOI: 10.35848/1882-0786/ac8f81). “Many technologies require power conversion,” says first author Dolar  Khachariya, a former Ph.D. student at NC State. “For example, the  technology might need to convert AC to DC, or convert electricity into work –  like an electric motor. And in any power conversion system, most power  loss takes place at the power switch,” he adds. “Developing more efficient power electronics like power switches  reduces the amount of power lost during the conversion process,” says  Khachariya, who is who is now a researcher at Adroit Materials. “This is  particularly important for developing technologies to support a more  sustainable power infrastructure, such as smart grids,” he adds. “Our work here not only means that we can reduce energy loss in  power electronics, but we can also make the systems for power conversion  more compact compared to conventional silicon and silicon carbide  electronics,” says co-author Ramón Collazo, an associate professor of materials  science and engineering at NC State. “This makes it possible to  incorporate these systems into technologies where they don’t currently fit due  to weight or size restrictions, such as in automobiles, ships, airplanes, or technologies  distributed throughout a smart grid.” In a paper published in 2021, the researchers outlined a technique  that uses ion implantation and activation to dope targeted areas in GaN  materials. In the new paper, the researchers have demonstrated how this  technique can be used to create actual devices. Specifically, the researchers  used selectively doped GaN materials to create junction barrier Schottky  (JBS) diodes.  “Power rectifiers, such as JBS diodes, are used as switches in  every power system,” Collazo says. “But historically they have been made of the  semiconductors silicon or silicon carbide, because the electrical  properties of undoped GaN are not compatible with the architecture of JBS  diodes,” he adds. “We’ve demonstrated that you can selectively dope GaN to create  functional JBS diodes, and that these diodes are not only functional but enable  more power-efficient conversion than JBS diodes that use conventional  semiconductors. For example, in technical terms, our GaN JBS diode, fabricated  on a native GaN substrate, has record high breakdown voltage (915V [corresponding  to a maximum electric field of 3.3MV/cm]) and record low on-resistance.” 