TRUMPF and KDPOF partner on components and networks for automotive datacoms TRUMPF Photonic Components GmbH  of Ulm, Germany (part of the TRUMPF Group) – which manufactures vertical-cavity  surface-emitting lasers (VCSELs) and photodiodes for the consumer electronics,  datacoms, industrial sensing, heating and automotive markets – and fabless semiconductor  supplier KDPOF of Tres Cantos, Madrid, Spain – a supplier for automotive  gigabit connectivity over POF (plastic optical fiber) – have  become strategic partners on automotive datacom solutions. Both companies pursue the goal of  implementing optical data communication  standards and solutions for the automotive industry, so they are combining  their knowledge in the field of components and networks for optical data  communication. “With our strategic partnership we  are going one step further and aim to establish VCSELs [vertical-cavity surface-emitting  lasers] and optical networks as indispensable parts in future cars,” says  KDPOF’s chief technology officer Rubén  Pérez-Aranda. “Having a supplier like TRUMPF as a partner in working groups enriches  the discussion with deep manufacturing and design knowledge of VCSEL and  photodiodes components.” Due to the push in the automotive  sector towards autonomous driving, a large amount of data must be processed in  cars. Consequently, optical interconnects are required to manage the data flow, acting as a  nervous system  connecting sensors and electronic brains, while meeting tight electro-magnetic  interference requirements. “After a long-term cooperation, it’s great to enter  a strategic partnership with KDPOF now, combining our long-term expertise to  shape the future of data communication within car networks,” says Joseph  Pankert, VP product management  at TRUMPF Photonic Components.  “Our long-term studies have already proven that 980nm VCSELs can operate at  much higher temperatures while maintaining excellent reliability. This is  exactly what the automotive industry is demanding, and therefore we support the  movement towards a new, long-wavelength standard.” Compared with datacenters,  automotive applications require not only a much wider range of operating  temperatures (from -40°C up to 125°C) but also an interconnect length of even  less than 40m. For superior robustness against wear-outs and random failures,  the 980nm VCSEL is recognized as the preferred wavelength for the new standard.  Next to performance characteristics, 980nm enters into existing OM3 fibers with only  limited dispersion loss. Both TRUMPF and KDPOF are participants  in the IEEE P802.3cz taskforce. The current draft approved in IEEE 802.3  working group  ballot for automotive optical multi-gigabit data transmission provides optical  specifications that make use of reliable light sources based on proven longer-wavelength  technology. Driver assistance  and autonomous vehicle  operation will benefit from equipment made of standardized components, it is  reckoned. “The automotive industry is a very demanding,” notes Pérez-Aranda.  “The IEEE 802.3 standard is therefore focusing on highly reliable conditions  that delivers a service life of 15 years and more.” TRUMPF  Photonic Components is exhibiting booth 473 at the 48th  European Conference on Optical  Communication (ECOC 2022) in Basel, Switzerland (19-21 September), and TRUMPF and KDPOF are giving a joint presentation on ‘980nm VCSELs: New standard in automotive’ on 21 September at 3.15pm on the  market focus stage at ECOC. 