Scintil completes second funding round with investment from Applied Ventures ITIC Scintil Photonics of  Grenoble, France and Toronto, Canada, a fabless developer of silicon photonic  integrated circuits (integrated laser arrays, 800Gb/s transmitters  and receivers, tunable transmitters and receivers, as well as optical I/O for  near chip and chip-chip communication), has completed its second round of funding by securing additional  investment from Applied Ventures  ITIC Innovation Fund L.P., a fund jointly created by Applied Ventures LLC  (venture capital arm of Applied Materials) and ITIC-Taiwan (Industrial  Technology Investment Corporation, the venture capital arm of Taiwan’s  Industrial Technology Research Institute  (ITRI). Robert Bosch Venture Capital (RBVC) led the original round in  June, with support from historic investors Innovacom, Supernova Invest and Bpifrance (through its Digital Venture fund). With this new investment,  the firm’s total funding has reached €19m. Scintil Photonics’ IC solutions aim to  significantly enhance traditional high-speed optical communications from  rack-to-rack to chip interconnections. The firm’s proprietary III-V Augmented  Silicon Photonic Integrated Circuit (ASPIC) is a single-chip solution  that uses standard silicon photonics  processes (available at CMOS commercial foundries) with III-V optical  amplifiers and lasers integrated on the backside of the silicon photonic circuits. This unique all-in-one  integration enables ultra-high-speed communications, due to high  parallelization and higher bit rates,  e.g. from 800Gb/s to 3200Gb/s, helping the multi-billion-dollar electronics  industry overcome the slowing of Moore’s Law  with the integration of very high-speed optical communications. The company will use the additional funds  to improve its global industrialization footprint and speed up the  commercialization of its products in the Americas and Asia-Pacific. “Scintil Photonics is very happy to  welcome Applied Ventures and ITIC. By teaming with such strong semiconductor  industry players we can access the very robust industrial ecosystem in the  Americas and Asia-Pacific,” says president & CEO Sylvie Menezo. “Their  support will also bring great opportunities to deploy products to customers in  those regions,” she adds. “Silicon photonics-based optical chips  with integrated lasers represent a major new opportunity in the data-center,  high-performance computing (HPC),  cloud systems and telecom markets,” believes  Anand Kamannavar, VP & global head  of Applied Ventures. “Scintil is a  great example of our strategy to invest in the Materials to Systems  stack. We are excited to be working with its team in advancing the technology  with key market leaders in the HPC space,” he adds. Investment in Scintil Photonics presents  “a huge opportunity for next phase integration of very high-performance systems  in data-center and cloud computing,” comments ITIC president & CEO Michel  Chu. “This investment illustrates our commitment to supporting the most  promising technologies worldwide.” 