Seoul Viosys demonstrates micro-LEDs at IFA At the Internationale Funkausstellung Berlin (IFA 2022) in Germany  (2-6 September), ultraviolet LED product maker Seoul Viosys Co Ltd  (a subsidiary of South Korean LED maker Seoul Semiconductor Co Ltd)  presented micro-LEDs based on a laminated structure – which enables  high-resolution displays – as well as its micro-LED display products. The stacked micro-LED has a unique structure in which three chips  representing red, green and blue (R/G/B) are vertically arrayed instead of the  usual horizontal array. The main difference from conventional micro-LEDs is  that its R/G/B LEDs in the stacked structure emit colors as if they constitute  a single pixel through perfect color mixing,  it is claimed. Seoul Viosys says that, due to the stacked structure, its  micro-LED can achieve deep black color and a clear image. Also, as colors  combining R/G/B are emitted externally from inside a pixel, viewers can see  clear pictures without distortions from any direction, it adds.  Picture:   Color mixing technique based on  Seoul Viosys’s technology. The stacked micro-LED presented by Seoul Viosys at IFA is based on  an innovative future technology that can manufacture 4K display screens between 100- and 200-inches. The company’s booth  exhibited two micro-LED displays, including a 54-inch high-resolution 0.625mm-pitch  (P0.625) display and an 81.5-inch 0.9375mm-pitch (P0.9375) display. Various products representing key production processes of Seoul  Viosys’s micro-LED, which had not been unveiled publicly, were also on display.  By exhibiting epitaxial wafers and other products fabricated using high-level  transfer technology for moving micro-LEDs to a display substrate, the firm will  offer differentiated prices and quality, it is claimed. In addition, Seoul Viosys exhibited its display LED techniques supporting its micro-LED  technology (such as the molding technique that controls the moiré phenomenon)  and highlighted details of the black color, the low-reflection technique that  helps achieve vivid colors and high contrast ratios  in the light, and the customized free form-factor design cabinet display that allows easy installation and  replacement of micro-displays and change to various sizes. As micro-LEDs must run stably on extremely low power, it is  difficult to achieve technical innovation without LED growth technology. Seoul Viosys  already owns quantum efficiency  enhancement technology for 1㎛-sized  micro-LEDs through joint research with Nobel Laureate Shuji Nakamura, a  professor at University of California Santa Barbara  (UCSB) in the USA. The firm also operates entire processes, from the production  of a red-green-blue light-emitting substrate to the manufacturing of devices  and modules. Notably, WICOP (Wafer Integrated  Chip on PCB), Seoul Viosys’s  original technology, was applied to its micro-LED. For producing micro-LEDs,  WICOP enables the fabrication of micro-scale chips by using no additional parts  such as wires. It also has high reliability due to process simplification. “By securing WICOP, a source technology for micro-LED and  mini-LED, and quantum efficiency  enhancement technology, Seoul Viosys  is now ready to address any customer requests,” says president Hwang  Jeong-hwan. “Seoul Viosys is introducing its products integrated for the  purpose of providing a better solution to our customers, comprising LED, molding,  and cabinet technologies,” he adds. 