GaNo Opto launches first silicon carbide EUV photodiode GaNo  Optoelectronics Inc – a spin-off from China’s Nanjing University that  offers ultraviolet (UV) detectors and modules based on wide-bandgap  semiconductors including gallium nitride (GaN) and silicon carbide  (SiC) – has formally released what it claims are the first commercial SiC-based  extreme ultraviolet (EUV) photodiodes.  Figure 1: Distribution of optical emission  spectrum from THz to x-ray. With the rapid development of  VLSI fabrication technologies down to 7/5nm nodes (for micro-chips containing  billions of transistors), advanced photolithography is transitioning from deep ultraviolet (DUV) immersion lithography based on a 193nm light source to extreme ultraviolet (EUV) lithography based on 13.5nm light source. An EUV lithography system is so  complex that demanding technical challenges must be overcome for meeting  chipmakers’ requirements for high-volume manufacturing. Among them, the  development of high-performance EUV detectors is critical because, to precisely  control the photoresist exposure dose,  the intensity and uniformity of the EUV light beam  must be constantly monitored. Besides EUV lithography, semiconductor EUV detectors are also core components in  solar-observing satellites, materials science  and many fundamental research fields. Traditionally,  commercial EUV detectors are solely based on silicon (Si), which have been  demonstrated with certain success but suffer from several intrinsic drawbacks.  For example, although silicon EUV detectors could exhibit moderate quantum efficiency  in the EUV wavelength range, they require highly complex optical filters to  achieve a high UV/visible rejection ratio as their peak  response stays within the visible wavelength range. In addition, silicon  detectors are not suitable for working in harsh environments, which would  degrade considerably upon high-fluence EUV irradiation. “It has been well accepted that  wide-bandgap semiconductor is the most suitable material for making UV  photodetectors,” says chief technology officer  Dr Hai Lu,  who is also distinguished professor at Nanjing University. “Due to the wide-bandgap  nature of SiC, EUV photodiodes based  on SiC have no response to background white light  and could exhibit very low dark current  down to 1pA even at a high temperature of 150℃. This means that the SiC EUV photodiodes have extremely low noise,  leading to very high signal-to-noise ratio  and detectivity. Meanwhile, it has been confirmed that the radiation hardness  of SiC photodiodes is at least 1000 times higher than their silicon  counterparts, due to the high electron-hole pair  ionization energy and displacement threshold energy  of SiC semiconductor,” he adds. GaNo Opto  says that its new intrinsically visible-blind EUV photodiodes  can work in either photovoltaic or photoconductive mode with high EUV photon detection  efficiency, high response speed and high stability. Despite  the apparent advantages, the implementation of SiC EUV photodiodes  is very challenging due to substrate- or epi-related material defects,  relatively poorly modeled device operation, and immature device processing  technology. “Our process shows that appropriate surface electric field  modulation and surface passivation techniques are critical  for realizing SiC EUV photodiodes with low leakage current  and long-term stability, both of which are necessary for high-end applications  in advanced lithography systems or space satellites,” Lu says.  Figure 2: Some of GaNo Opto’s newly released EUV and vacuum UV detectors. After  pilot production and multiple customer verifications  beginning from October 2021, GaNo Opto has started to ship SiC EUV  photodiodes and components to several major customers worldwide. “Our  next step is to develop EUV imaging arrays based on SiC photodiodes,” says Lu.  “In this case, uniformity among each photodiode pixel and scalability would be  the main technological barriers. New implantation and dopant activation  sequences, and back-end processing techniques, are being developed to achieve  this goal.” 