Lumileds’ lenders agree debt reduction of $1.3bn, and $275m in loans LED product  and lighting maker Lumileds Holding B.V. has entered into a  restructuring support agreement (RSA) with its major lenders to significantly  de-leverage and strengthen its balance sheet by over $1.3bn (from about  $1.7bn to $400m), consisting of takeback debt and post-petition loans, which  will be combined into a five-year exit facility. Specifically, the agreement  involves the injection of up to $275m of liquidity in debtor-in-possession  (DIP) financing from certain lenders, in order to “accelerate the firm’s growth  and enable further investment in innovation to pursue additional strategic opportunities”. To efficiently implement the  de-leveraging, a pre-packaged Chapter 11 plan involving only Lumileds’ US  and Dutch entities was filed on 29 August in the US Bankruptcy Court  for the Southern District of New York. Lumileds’ European, Asian and  other foreign subsidiaries and affiliates were not included in the filing and  are unaffected. On 30 August, Lumileds received  interim approval from the court for all the ‘first day’ motions related to  the pre-packaged Chapter 11 filing. The approved motions immediately  solidify the company’s liquidity position and maintain global operations in  their normal course throughout the financial restructuring. As part of these motions, the court granted Lumileds access to the  $275m DIP financing that, together with available cash reserves and cash  provided by operations, should provide sufficient liquidity for Lumileds to  continue meeting its ongoing obligations. Specifically, Lumileds says that it will continue to deliver  products and services to customers. The firm’s vendors and suppliers will not  be impaired and will be paid for all valid amounts owed as they come due. Also,  employees will continue to receive their usual wages and benefits without  interruption. “Over the past few years, we  have been hard at work transforming our cost structure and innovation pipeline,  which has allowed us to capitalize more effectively on future market trends as  a leader in the lighting industry,” says Lumileds’ CEO Matt Roney. “We have  proactively taken steps to de-leverage our balance sheet, given the ongoing  challenges presented by global supply constraints, COVID-related issues, and  the crisis in Ukraine. This recapitalization will enable us to further  accelerate our efforts as a market-leading innovator within the specialty  lighting industry,” he adds. “The most effective and efficient way to  accomplish this is through a prepackaged Chapter 11 process that will be  accompanied by a significant increase in our liquidity position. We appreciate  the support of our lenders, who recognize the long-term value and enhanced  potential Lumileds will create with a strengthened balance sheet.” “The approval of our first day motions is an important milestone  in our recapitalization and financial restructuring efforts, which will allow  us to operate in the normal course as we de-leverage our balance sheet and  further position Lumileds to capture opportunities in the market and accelerate  our growth,” says Roney. Lumileds expects to meet the  requirements to emerge from the Chapter 11 process within about  60 days. 