NUBURU raises $5m in convertible promissory notes to provide capital to invest in business NUBURU Inc of Centennial, CO, USA (which was  founded in 2015 and specializes in high-power, high-brightness blue lasers for  3D printing and industrial applications) has issued over $5m of convertible promissory  notes and completed several milestones related to its business combination  (announced on 8 August)  with special-purpose acquisition company Tailwind  Acquisition Corp. The company notes provide immediate funding, which NUBURU intends  to use to maintain its investment in its next-generation extreme-brightness AI  laser product line and to  pursue new technology development. Steps taken to build on the positive  momentum of the proposed business combination transaction with TWND include  adding a key capital markets advisor and completing significant diligence  processes. “Tailwind has completed its diligence, which was the final  diligence-related milestone that could have triggered termination of the  business combination,” says NUBURU’s CEO, co-founder & president Dr Mark Zediker. “As a result, we’ve removed  a potential gating item to our merger and eliminated key conditionality relating  to the business combination,” he adds. “In light of this successful financing, the previously announced  funding agreement for up to $100m, and the absence of a minimum cash condition  in our transaction, we remain excited about the opportunity this deal provides  to both sets of stockholders,” says TWND’s CEO & director Chris Hollod. “We  are continuing our positive momentum towards closing this deal in first-quarter  2023 [subject to stockholder approval and other customary closing conditions].” The company notes will convert into shares of NUBURU common stock immediately prior to, and  subject to the occurrence of, the closing of the business combination, which  common stock will convert  into common stock of the  combined company at the closing of the business combination. As holders of  common stock of the  combined company, the former holders of company notes would also be eligible to receive shares of Series A preferred stock of the combined company on  the same terms as the TWND public stockholders. The conversion price is subject  to an initial valuation cap of $350m for Nuburu as a private company. If the upcoming extension proposal is approved by TWND’s  stockholders at TWND’s 7 September extension vote meeting, TWND’s sponsor  (or one or more of its affiliates, members or third-party designees) has agreed  to provide an incremental contribution to its trust account. For the initial  four-month extension ending on 9 January 2023, TWND will contribute  the lesser of $500,000 and $0.25 per share of common stock not  redeemed in connection with the extension. For each of the two subsequent  one-month extensions required to close the business combination, TWND will  contribute the lesser of $50,000 and $0.025 per share of common stock  not redeemed in connection with the extension. Based on the combined anticipated financing sources including  TWND’s cash in trust (following redemptions), the preferred share structure  designed to incentivize non-redemptions and the Lincoln Park Capital  funding agreement for up to $100m (subject to the closing of the transaction  and other conditions set forth in the purchase agreement entered into between  TWND, NUBURU and Lincoln Park Capital), the proposed transaction has no  minimum cash requirement for closing. 