TRUMPF introduces single-mode VCSEL platform for industrial sensing products TRUMPF Photonic Components GmbH of Ulm,  Germany (part of the TRUMPF Group) – which manufactures vertical-cavity  surface-emitting lasers (VCSELs) and photodiodes for the consumer electronics,  datacoms, industrial sensing, heating and automotive markets – has  unveiled a new product platform for its single-mode VCSEL products for industrial  and professional applications. VCSELs for optical sensing in  industrial applications or test & measurement equipment in laboratories  must be efficient and highly accurate because of their role in quality  management, being used in quality and safety monitoring systems. These needs  are addressed with the new VCSEL platform. “It’s great to see how the  investments we made in the state-of-the-art manufacturing equipment are paying  off, giving us optimum product and supply quality,” says Ralph Gudde, VP marketing  & sales. “Innovative product design and short product development  cycles are addressing the rigorous demands on industrial applications, ranging  from spectroscopic oxygen sensing to robust data communication links  in CT scanners.” The next generation of single-mode  VCSEL products offers lower power consumption while maintaining high  output performance, yielding higher energy efficiency. The single-mode VCSEL  comes with a Gaussian-shaped beam profile and stable, linear polarization. The  latter improves its illumination quality and resolution. Therefore, high-volume  and highly integrated industrial applications are enabled with the new  single-mode VCSEL, which is available in various wavelengths from 760nm to  855nm. Due to easy operation, temperature  and wavelength stability, and polarization locking of the emitting light,  TRUMPF says that its VCSEL products are suitable for industrial sensing  technologies like spectroscopy and time-of-flight (ToF). “Our leading customers  highly value our continuous investments and commitments in this industrial  business,” says Gudde. “We received several multi-year contracts from market  leaders in oxygen sensing for our single-mode VCSEL solution in TO packages,”  he adds. For easy product integration in industrial environments and for the  smart integration of additional features (such as temperature control), the  VCSELs are available in various packaging options, such as hermetically sealed  TO packages with TEC (thermo-electric cooler) and thermistor. VCSELs are used as a light source  in various industrial processes and applications because they are highly  reliable, and their light properties enable demanding sensing applications. In industrial robots for example,  optical encoders serve as high-precision position control sensors.  With its high-quality Gaussian-shaped beam profile and polarization-controlled  emitted light, the next-generation single-mode VCSEL serves this application as  a coherent light source. The reliability of the single-mode VCSELs  leads to a high service life of 10 years or more. When it comes to in-situ  measurements, VCSELs serve as reference lasers in FTIR (Fourier transform infrared) spectrometers,  enabling the quick identification of compounds in the environment. FTIR  analysis is used in automotive, pharmaceutical, biomedical or clinical fields.  The wavelength and power stability over time make the VCSEL the perfect  infrared light source for this application. Another application field is in CT  scanners in the medical field, in which the single-mode VCSEL serves as an  optical link to read out detectors and, in doing so, replaces  copper interconnects. 