Marelli and Politecnico di Torino co-developing GaN for high-voltage power converters Marelli Motorsport – the motorsport  business unit of automotive supplier Marelli, (which has extensive experience  of developing hybrid and electric systems) – and the Power Electronics Innovation Center (PEIC) of  Italy’s Politecnico di Torino have announced a new collaboration on gallium nitride (GaN) technology for power electronics, targeting electric engines.  The project is included in a wider framework research partnership between  Marelli and Politecnico. The collaboration is aimed at the design  and prototyping of an innovative multi-level 900V high-power inverter for  electric traction based  on GaN technology. GaN, which can reach unprecedented  switching frequencies and low switching energy, allows a radical reduction of  passive components (e.g. inductors, capacitors, transformers) while maintaining  outstanding efficiency. In the last few years, GaN technology has been evolving  rapidly in terms of conduction and switching performance. In addition, since  lateral GaN devices are grown on standard silicon wafers, their cost is already  highly competitive. GaN technology is said to open new  horizons in power converter  design innovation, in which the collaboration has the aim to excel in terms of  high-efficiency multi-level architectures, optimal and robust gate driving and device parallelization,  high-frequency and high-temperature capacitor technologies, integration of  capacitors and semiconductors on printed-circuit boards for cost reduction,  advanced cooling solutions. “The  collaboration with Politecnico di Torino is enabling a more rapid pace of  development with respect to innovative wide-bandgap technology applied to power  converters,” says Riccardo De Filippi, head of  Marelli Motorsport. “In particular, GaN is proving to be very  promising for what concerns high-frequency switching devices, even at very high  voltage and power levels. It looks like the new technology can have a bright  future in the automotive electrification market,” he adds. “The  collaboration with Marelli is a further demonstration of the multiple benefits  and synergies possible between university and industry when they join forces in  fast tracking new technologies into cutting-edge device  development,” comments PEIC  chairman Radu Bojoi. The concept study started back in 2021  and, at present, it is in the prototyping phase, which is planning to undergo  two development steps in 2022. The GaN component supplier selected for the  prototype phase is VisIC Technologies Ltd of Ness Ziona, Israel. 