Smartphone production falls 6% in Q2 to 292 million According to market research firm TrendForce, second-half  2022 smartphone production planning was quite conservative as brands gave  priority to adjusting distribution channel inventory. At the same time, weak  market demand worsened on the back of China’s pandemic controls and brands were  forced to lower their production targets. As a whole, production volume dropped  by 6% in second-quarter 2022, even though volume had always grown in previous  second quarters. Global output was only about 292 million units, down 5%  on the same period in 2021 when a second wave of pandemic outbreaks occurred in  South Asia and Southeast Asia.  As the primary vendor in Europe, Samsung was forced to carry out a  series of inventory adjustments for finished products and components including  large-scale promotions and suspension of component procurement due to the  impact of the Russian-Ukrainian war. Thus, production volume in Q2/2022 was  significantly reduced by 16.3% quarter-to-quarter to 61.8 million units.  Looking to Q3, Samsung is still focusing on the adjustment of distribution channel  inventory and, as the outlook remains conservative, total production in Q3 is  forecasted to remain flat or trend upward marginally compared with Q2. It is  worth noting that, in recent years, due to its aggressive investment in R&D  and marketing of folding devices, Samsung has successfully maintained the  popularity of these devices, and has also become the market leader in this  segment. Samsung will account for nearly 90% of the 1.1% global smartphone  market share held by folding devices in 2022. For Apple, Q2 is a transition period as it hands off old models  for new and is nominally the quarter with the lowest production performance  during the year. Initial operational performance was affected in Q2 by the  implementation of lockdowns in Shanghai and Kunshan which hobbled supply chain  supply. The output shortfall created during the lockdown period was made up  with production capacity adjustment after the lockdowns were lifted. Apple  still produced 48.2 million units in Q2, ranking second in the world.  Looking to Q3, the iPhone 14 Pro and Pro Max are among four new  models to be upgraded to the A16 (TSMC 4nm) processor. Upgrades such as  initial starting memory capacity increasing to LPDDR5 6GB and 256GB,  primary camera moving up to 48 million, Face ID Design changes etc.,  are expected to raise starting prices. However, under pressure from rising  global inflation and foreign exchange rates, Apple is expected to adopt a  more cautious pricing strategy so as not to affect its sales performance.  OPPO (including Realme, OnePlus) produced 38.8 million units  in Q2, down 4.2% quarter-on-quarter. Xiaomi (including Redmi, POCO, Black Shark)  produced 38 million units, down 14.6%. Since Vivo (including iQoo) began  to adjust its pace of production significantly in Q1/2022, it rebounded by 12.7%  to 25.7 million units in Q2. Ranked third to fifth respectively, these  three brands overlap significantly in sales market and product planning. In Q2,  China’s lockdowns plus extreme weather in the Indian market affected economic  performance, resulting in sluggish sales in these two major markets, which in  turn affected production performance. Furthermore, the rapid rise of Honor in  the Chinese market poses a considerable threat to the market share of brands  such as OPPO, Xiaomi and Vivo. Honor’s market share in China is estimated to  surpass Xiaomi and approach OPPO and Vivo in 2022. Looking to Q3, China’s economy (the primary market of OPPO, Xiaomi  and Vivo) is expected to remain weak. Originally upbeat emerging markets such  as India and Indonesia have also found it difficult to maintain growth due to  global inflation, food crises and extreme weather. Considering the  numerous negative market factors and the fact that distribution channel  inventory is still to be digested, TrendForce believes that the production  volume of the three aforementioned brands will be roughly in line with Q2,  while all showing a sharp decline of more than 10% compared with the same  period last year, which is enough to herald worrying performance in peak season  during second-half 2022. On the whole, the Chinese market (one of the world’s  three major markets) has reached a high degree of saturation and demand growth  has slowed. In the future, the focus of China’s three major smartphone brands  will remain on expanding overseas markets, TrendForce concludes. 