TRUMPF develops VCSELs for quantum-based altitude gyroscope sensor TRUMPF Photonic Components GmbH of Ulm,  Germany (part of the TRUMPF Group) – which manufactures vertical-cavity  surface-emitting lasers (VCSELs) and photodiodes for the consumer electronics,  datacoms, industrial sensing, heating and automotive markets – has  developed a high-power, single-mode VCSEL to be implemented in an altitude  gyroscope sensor  suitable for use in space. In a few years time the satellite  with the quantum-based gyroscope should fly into space to generate highly  precise attitude determination. The  first satellite controlled by quantum technology is scheduled to be launched in  2027. The core component of the sensor will be a VCSEL light source.  As miniaturization and robustness are essential for the application, the very  small and durable VCSELs are suited to the job. Compared with existing laser  solutions, VCSELs can be supplied several orders of magnitude smaller and at  significantly lower cost. The newly developed single-mode VCSEL will come with  stable polarization and a very narrow bandwidth to address the high precision  needed in the quantum sensor. “It’s great to be part of the  subsidy project, and to combine various fields of expertise, push for  innovations and strengthen Germany as photonics hub,” comments CEO Berthold  Schmidt. The sensors enable the satellites to be aligned with each other with  high precision and thus enable a high-speed connection for data communication.  “We can’t wait to see our VCSEL integrated into a mini satellite, to support  worldwide high-quality data communication and to improve the  availability of Internet connections, especially in remote regions,” he adds. Quantum technology guarantees  long-term measurement stability, provides high performance in a small space,  and reduces weight. This not only allows satellites to hold their position  precisely for years but also supports other spectroscopic applications and  atomic clocks. TRUMPF is developing a single-mode  VCSEL emitting at a wavelength of 795nm with 10mW of output power. This is ten  times higher than the laser power that this technology was able to offer in the  past. The VCSEL technology also delivers  the required stability over a wide range of temperatures and robustness  demanded by this space application. The breakthrough in compactness and cost  enabled by VCSEL technology will also open up more applications in mass markets,  it is expected. Highly precise gyroscopes can be used in industry, logistics or  even in autonomously driving cars. The subsidy project QYRO has an  overall development budget of about €28m and is supported by Germany’s Federal  Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF). TRUMPF Photonic Components  is working closely with the Ferdinand-Braun-Institut, Leibniz-Institut für  Höchstfrequenztechnik (FBH) of Berlin, Germany. Together with  this institute, TRUMPF is jointly developing robust VCSELs with high spectral purity  that also meet the demands of quantum technology and space. Another TRUMPF  subsidiary based in Berlin will integrate the VCSEL component into a robust,  miniaturized TO package with additional optics and temperature  stabilization. TRUMPF brings to the table its assembly and automation  technology experise. Overall, there are five project partners, each bringing  their own specialization, such as Bosch, that is developing a miniaturized,  space-compatible measuring cell. The German Aerospace Center  (DLR) will ensure the suitability for space within the QYRO project and is  responsible for transporting the satellite into space. The quantum technology  start-up Q.ANT is leading the development partnership and assembling the  various components of the sensor. 