Transphorm wins ARPA-E contract for GaN-based four-quadrant switches with bidirectional current and voltage control Transphorm Inc of Goleta, near  Santa Barbara, CA, USA — which designs and manufactures JEDEC- and  AEC-Q101-qualified gallium nitride (GaN) field-effect transistors (FETs)  for high-voltage power conversion — has been awarded a contract by the Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA-E). Part of the  ARPA-E CIRCUITS program and through a sub-contract from Illinois Institute of  Technology, the project covers the supply of GaN-based four-quadrant switches  (FQSes) for use in various power conversion  applications including novel ones like current source  inverters, cyclo-converters for drives and micro-inverters, matrix switching, and solid-state circuit breakers. Transphorm says that the  initiative is the result of its GaN engineering expertise (specifically its  bidirectional GaN) along with industry and university interest in further  exploring the possibilities of lateral GaN switches. Transphorm will prototype the FQS platform using its 650V GaN  technology that continues to offer what is claimed to be the industry’s highest  threshold voltage (4V) in a 4-pin  TO-247 package. The project is expected to be completed in less than a year. Transphorm’s standard lateral GaN FETs inherently provide  bidirectional current flow. However,  certain applications such as current source  inverters for motor drives,  cyclo-converters and matrix converters also require bidirectional voltage control to effectively manage power flow. This capability is traditionally  achieved by placing two FETs in series using the devices’ body diode to steer and control current flow or via two insulated-gate bipolar  transistors (IGBTs) and two diodes, thus requiring four devices. Also called a true bidirectional switch, the FQS replaces the  two-FET or the two-IGBT+two-diode approaches with a single device capable of realizing  bidirectional voltage control and  bidirectional current flow. The FQS  uses two gates to block voltage of either polarity or pass current in either  direction. And, as a single device, it reduces the number of parts required to  achieve the desired result enabling higher power density,  increased reliability, and overall system cost reduction. “It is exciting to see the day approaching when GaN-based  bidirectional switches will be ready for commercial production,” comments  emeritus professor Tom Jahns, FIEEE,  NAE, at the University of Wisconsin - Madison. “Power electronics engineers have been anxiously anticipating the  day when MOS-gated bidirectional switches will become available because they  are the key to implementing promising power converter  topologies that offer exciting opportunities for improving efficiency, power density and fault tolerance in many  applications. They hold the potential to dramatically improve the commercial  viability of new products including solid-state circuit breakers and integrated motor drives  by making them significantly more compact and efficient than what is achievable  using today's silicon-based switches,” he adds. “GaN adoption is at a point today when bringing an FQS  bidirectional device to market makes sense,” says Dr Rakesh Lal,  technical fellow at Transphorm.  “Lateral GaN technology enables compact FQS dies to be fabricated because the  voltage-blocking region can be shared. This configuration cannot be realized  with vertical power device  technologies, such as with silicon or silicon carbide  (SiC), which gives GaN FQSes a clear edge in performance and cost,” he adds.  “With our FQS, one gets true bidirectionality in a fast low-loss switch, which  we believe will inspire next-generation power conversion  products through the CIRCUITS program driven  partnerships.” 