OIPT launches alternative to CMP for epi-prep of silicon carbide substrates Plasma etch and deposition processing system  maker Oxford Instruments Plasma Technology (OIPT) of Yatton, near  Bristol, UK has unveiled a  new alternative method of preparing silicon carbide  (SiC) substrates for epitaxy. Plasma polishing for SiC substrates has been  demonstrated as a superior and high-volume  manufacturing (HVM)-compatible alternative to chemical-mechanical  planarization (CMP), while alleviating significant technical, environmental and  supply chain issues associated with  CMP. The Oxford Instruments’ Plasma Polish  Dry Etch (PPDE) process is a direct  plug and play replacement for CMP and easily integrates into existing process  flows. CMP has been the process of record for SiC substrate preparation for  many years, but suffers from undesirable operational issues, and the industry as  a whole is struggling to meet increasing demand for SiC substrates. Operating  CMP in SiC substrate fabs has a large environmental footprint due to the  semi-toxic slurry by-product, and the heavy water usage  that the process demands is wasteful. In addition, the polishing pads and  speciality chemicals bring significant consumable cost in a challenging supply chain environment. Furthermore, the CMP  process is inherently unstable as slurry chemicals and polishing pads are  consumed, introducing drift into the process line. PPDE is a stable non-contact  process, which reduces handling loss and allows for the processing of thinner  wafers, producing more wafers per boule and enabling the progression to 200mm  SiC substrates. “There is a compelling technical and commercial case for choosing  plasma surface preparation to  produce epi-ready SiC substrates. From a technical perspective we have a route  to thinner wafers with less bow and excellent epi-ready quality, a strong  commercial case for taking cost and complexity out of the supply chain, in addition to providing a  significantly cleaner greener process that is fab compatible  and integratable,” comments Plasma Technology’s  strategic business development  director Klaas Wisniewski. “This is an incredibly attractive proposition that,  as a technique compared to the current method, provides better results at lower  cost, drops into the production flow like for like, and enables environmentally  sustainable production of SiC devices.” Oxford Instruments Plasma Technology is formally launching its  PPDE process at the International Conference on Silicon Carbide and Related Materials (ICSCRM/ECSCRM), in Davos,  Switzerland (11-16 September). In  the conference technical sessions, it will present its latest whole wafer epi and device results utilizing  its patented PPDE process, from wafers manufactured by their commercial foundry  partners. There is also an opportunity to speak in-person at the event to  discuss implementing PPDE in high-volume manufacturing fabs. 