NUBURU awarded USAF SBIR Phase II contract to develop blue laser-based area printing additive manufacturing system NUBURU Inc (which was founded in  2015 and specializes in high-power, high-brightness blue lasers for  3D printing and industrial applications) has been awarded an AFWERX  Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) Phase II contract by the US  Air Force (USAF) to develop a blue laser-based 3D printing  solution with area printing technology. Established in 2017, AFWERX is the US Air Force’s team of  innovators who encourage and facilitate connections across industry, academia  and the military to create transformative opportunities and foster a culture of  innovation. Its mission is to solve problems and enhance the effectiveness of  the service by enabling thoughtful, deliberate, ground-up innovation. The goal of the new one-year project is to demonstrate improved  speed and accuracy of a metal 3D printer based on NUBURU’s blue laser  technology. This new class of 3D printers will aim to offer micron-level  resolution, increased part size and metal density, up to 100x  build speed, with minimal to zero post-processing and part shrinkage. “We are honored to bring the power of blue laser technology and  next-generation 3D printing capabilities to the United States  military through this contract,” says CEO & co-founder Mark  Zediker PhD. “By combining the absorption advantages of blue lasers  with area printing technology, we aim to create larger-scale  3D printers that can offer up to 100x the printing speed of an  infrared laser-based printer with full metal density. If we are  successful, this could allow the military to build replacement parts for older  aircraft that have been obsoleted by the original suppliers and can otherwise  take months to procure. This would greatly diminish the time required to build  and replace critical components and would allow aircraft to return to  operational readiness more quickly,” he adds. “NUBURU has already pioneered metal welding applications within  batteries, e-mobility and consumer electronics, and we are excited to continue  expanding our capabilities into metal 3D printing, all with the same  powerful blue laser technology,” says executive chairman Ron Nicol. “This  project will help to bring area printing, with its high-throughput  capabilities and cost advantages, to key markets such as aerospace, automotive  and more.” 