II-VI extends CEO contract with Chuck Mattera to August 2030 Engineered materials and optoelectronic component  maker II-VI Inc of Saxonburg, PA, USA says that its board of directors, upon the recommendation of its  Human Capital and Compensation Committee, has unanimously agreed to  extend Dr Vincent D. ‘Chuck’ Mattera Jr’s  contract as CEO until 1 August 2030. “Chuck’s vision, energy and execution have driven our  acquisition-related integration activities in the United States, Europe and Asia, thereby  establishing additional growth engines that provide agility and sustainability  to the company’s operations,” comments Dr Shaker  Sadasivam, chairman of the Compensation Committee on the board of  directors. “His leadership has positioned the company into large and  transformative global growth markets  while continually increasing its worldwide reach, deepening its technology and  IP portfolio, broadening its product roadmap and customer base, and building  its brand as a market leader,” he adds. “I look forward with a great sense of mission to continuing to  build on a strong record of excellence, to grow the company at a significant  pace during this decade, and to set the stage for what may come next and  beyond,” says chair & CEO Mattera.  “I recognize Dr Carl Johnson, the co-founder and  first CEO of II-VI, and Fran Kramer, our  chair emeritus and second CEO, along with members of our board of  directors, our executive team, and employees around the world.” Mattera’s long association with II-VI began when he initially  served as a member of the board from 2000 to 2002. He joined the company as  vice president in 2004 and served as executive VP from 2010 to 2013, when  he became chief operating officer. Mattera was re-appointed to the board  in 2012. In 2014, he became president & chief operating officer. In  2016, Mattera became the company’s third president  & CEO in 45 years and continued as CEO when the roles of president and  CEO were separated in June 2019. He was named chair & CEO in November 2021. 