Infineon signs multi-year supply agreement for II-VI’s silicon carbide wafers Infineon  Technologies AG of Munich, Germany has signed a multi-year supply agreement  for silicon carbide (SiC) wafers from II-VI Inc of Saxonburg, PA, USA. Infineon’s aim is to  secure further access to silicon carbide to meet the strong increase in  customer demand in this sector, and to supports its multi-sourcing strategy and  increase its supply chain resilience. The first deliveries have already  taken place. Infineon claims  that its CoolSiC brand is already the industry’s largest portfolio of devices  for industrial power semiconductor applications. In addition to  photovoltaic converters and industrial power supplies, SiC power semiconductors  are also used particularly in e-mobility, e.g. in the main inverters for  e-vehicle drive trains, in onboard battery charging units and in  charging infrastructures, as the material meets the highest quality standards  for industrial and automotive applications. As strategic partners, II-VI and  Infineon are also collaborating on the transition to 200mm-diameter SiC wafers. “SiC compound  semiconductors set new standards in power density and efficiency. We are  leveraging them to deliver on our strategy of decarbonization and  digitalization,” says Infineon’s chief procurement officer Angelique van der Burg.  “Infineon is increasing investments in its SiC manufacturing capacity to meet  the rapidly growing demand from our customers,” she adds. “Infineon, as  a market leader in power semiconductors, is an important partner for us,” says  Sohail Khan, executive VP, New Ventures & Wide-Bandgap Electronics  Technologies at II-VI. “Our highly specialized products are now helping  Infineon provide innovative electronic components to key customers worldwide.” Infineon  expects its SiC semiconductor sales to grow by more than 60% on average per  year, reaching about $1bn by mid-decade. For the second half of the decade, the  firm expects on-going growth momentum, for which it is investing in its  recently announced additional manufacturing block in Kulim, Malaysia. 