SEMIKRON and Danfoss Silicon Power become Semikron Danfoss Less than five months after it was announced in late March, German firms SEMIKRON of Nuremberg and Danfoss Silicon Power GmbH of  Flensburg have started doing business as Semikron Danfoss. 
Semikron Danfoss is owned by the owner-families of SEMIKRON and  the Danfoss Group, with Danfoss being the majority owner. With an existing workforce of more than 3500, the merged power semiconductor  module firm retains the two main locations in Germany. All global subsidiaries,  production sites and distribution channels continue.  Picture: Danfoss Silicon Power’s general manager Claus A. Petersen (left), who becomes CEO of  Semikron Danfoss, and former SEMIKRON CEO Karl-Heinz Gaubatz (right), who  becomes CTO until his planned retirement at the end of 2022. “The timing of the new company is perfect,” believes Danfoss  Silicon Power’s general manager Claus A. Petersen, who becomes CEO  of Semikron Danfoss. “With strong growth in our key markets – automotive,  industry and renewables – the merger is a great opportunity for customers,  partners, and our employees. Also, with the emerging technology transition from  silicon to silicon carbide (SiC), we are set to become the strongest  partner of our customers.” Karl-Heinz Gaubatz has stepped down from his position as CEO of  SEMIKRON to focus on his role as chief technology officer and support the  merger process until his planned retirement at the end of 2022. “We have  succeeded to position SEMIKRON as a market leader in industrial and renewable  power module applications, with 2021 as one of the most successful years  in our history,” notes Gaubatz. “It is only right that we now join forces with  an equally driven and innovative company,” he adds. “Electrification is one of the main drivers in the green transition,  and Semikron Danfoss technologies are key components within industry,  renewable energy, and automotive traction,” says Danfoss’ president &  CEO Kim Fausing, who becomes chairman of the board of Semikron Danfoss. “Combining  more than 90 years of technology leadership in power module  packaging, we have the passion, competences, technologies, and commitment to  become the preferred decarbonizing partner for customers.” 