Micro-LED large-sized display chip market to reach $2.7bn by 2026 According to the report ‘TrendForce 2022 Micro LED  Self-Emitting Display Trends and Analysis on Supplier's Strategies’,  4-inch wafers for micro-LED large-sized displays will reach about  1.14 million units by 2026, with the chip market rising at a compound  annual growth rate of about 241% from 2021 to $2.7bn in 2026.  Large-sized displays are currently the most anticipated products  among a number of micro-LED display applications, says TrendForce. However, the  greater micro-LED market remains at an R&D and experimental stage as  branded manufacturers have yet to launch mass-produced products. There are  still technical and cost bottlenecks that need to be completely overcome before  mass production and commercialization are feasible, including the improvement  of wafer wavelength uniformity, increasing mass-transfer production capacity,  and improving the glass backplane metallization yield rate. Therefore,  future efforts to overcome technical bottlenecks will focus on wafers, mass transfer,  and glass backplane metal processes. After the relevant technologies are  mature, costs can be quickly reduced and mass production and commercialization  accelerated, it is expected. At its Micro LED Forum 2022 on 13 September, TrendForce  will reveal the current progress of various manufacturers in developing  large-sized displays from the perspectives of epitaxy, mass transfer,  backplane technology, and equipment development. In terms of epitaxy equipment,  the forum will discuss the methodology of manufacturing micro-LED epitaxial  wafers with wavelength uniformity, low defect rates, and low cost as a key  to reducing wafer costs. In the seminar, AIXTRON will introduce the MOCVD  solution for mass production of micro-LED wafers. In terms of mass transfer, large-sized display mass transfer  technology is primarily based on stamp and laser transfer. At this stage, stamp transfer  technology is still mainstream but, due to the characteristics of red light  wafer material, it is easy to cause wafer damage and stamping losses, resulting  in a decrease in production yield. In addition, transfer cost depends on  the size of the transfer head and the utilization rate of the wafer. Compared  with stamp technology, laser transfer technology possesses the characteristics  of speed, precision and high efficiency, which will help to greatly reduce  mass-transfer cost in the future. However, intensive initial equipment  investment has become one of the obstacles in micro-LED mass-transfer  technology development. The Micro LED Forum 2022 features a  large number of transfer equipment manufacturers including Contrel, K&S,  and Ultra Display Technology. The forum also discusses future developments  in micro-LED large-sized displays, starting from transfer technology. In terms of driving backplanes, the active driving design scheme  with seamless splicing technology has an opportunity to become the mainstream  design used in micro-LED large-sized displays in the future. Currently, side wire  plating glass metallization technology has yet to become completely  viable. After this technology is perfected, rapid cost reduction will  fully unlock the advantages of an active drive backplane. The forum has  also invited panel makers that are actively deploying glass-driven backplanes  such as AUO, BOE and Luxnet to discuss development trends in related designs.  In addition, PanelSemi will also share its experience and describe new  opportunities for active flexible substrates. Macroblock, which is focused on  driver ICs, is analyzing the role that micro-LED large-sized displays play  in the metaverse. TrendForce indicates that, as micro-LED large-sized display  technology and cost continues to improve, coupled with aggressive planning on  the part of international branded manufacturers, there will be opportunities to  accelerate the realization of commercialized micro-LED large-sized display  products. Future development trends will include commercial-grade cinema  screens and indoor public display screens and consumer-grade TVs focused  on home theaters. Although current product pricing remains high, as the  development of technology, equipment and related components matures, micro-LED  large-sized displays will be the first choice for the high-end display market  in the future, reckons TrendForce. 