QustomDot and MICLEDI to co-develop polychromatic micro-LEDs via color conversion Ghent University spin-off QustomDot (which combines quantum dot synthesis, surface engineering and  ink/photoresist formulation into patterned color conversion  layers for micro-LED displays) and MICLEDI  Microdisplays B.V. of Leuven, Belgium – a fabless developer of micro-LED  display modules for augmented reality (AR) glasses that was spun off from  nanoelectronics research center IMEC in 2019 – have announced a  joint development program to  demonstrate full-color micro-LED integration in polychromatic pixel arrays. MICLEDI’s technology is based on a combination of III/V materials  processing, 3D integration and 300mm  silicon-based processing combined with a proprietary ASIC to provide a  self-contained, compact monolithic AR display with high image quality and power efficiency. The new technology addresses the growing demand for compact and  energy-efficient micro-displays for AR applications. New developments, such as this project, are supported by Flanders  Innovation and Entrepreneurship (VLAIO). The Flanders-based consortium enables  development of technology for micro-displays with high resolution and high  brightness, combining:  Picture:       MICLEDI’s micro-LED arrays (blue GaN,  3um pixel pitch)  for polychromatic QD integration. “Our patented method for producing RoHS-compliant QDs delivers  high-quality and stable materials. This makes them effective for micro-LED  applications, which will accelerate product development in this untapped  market,” reckons QustomDot’s chief technology officer  Willem Walravens. “Polychromatic arrays are an important development for micro-LED  products,” says MICLEDI’s chief technology officer  Dr Soeren Steudel. “The  manufacturing precision of MICLEDI’s 300mm micro-LED approach is a perfect  enabler for highly efficient color conversion.  Our new pixel architecture has been  optimized for high aperture (>60% aperture at a 3µm pixel pitch), which is a key requisite to  achieve a high brightness with quantum dots,”  he adds. “We are pleased to support the new micro-LED developments with  IMEC’s extensive technology background and know-how in the field of  high-resolution patterning and transfer, states professor Geert Van Steenberge, R&D team leader at IMEC-UGent. “We will continue  moving the state-of-the-art in pixel resolution, uniformity and process  throughput.” 