Keysight extends collaboration with Synopsys to validate complex RF and millimeter-wave design Keysight Technologies Inc of Santa Rosa,  CA, USA has extended its  collaboration with Synopsys Inc of Mountain View,  CA, USA ― which provides electronic design automation (EDA) software,  semiconductor IP and services for chip and electronic system design ― with  the integration of PathWave RFIC Design  (GoldenGate) with Synopsys Custom Compiler  design environment and Synopsys PrimeSim circuit simulation  solutions. This will enable designers to validate complex radio frequency (RF) and millimeter-wave design  requirements for 5G/6G system-on-chip (SoC) and subsystem designs in the  Synopsys Custom Design Family. “We are migrating our RF design environment to industry-leading  commercial tools and workflows based on the Synopsys Custom Compiler design and layout solution,”  says Koji Tomioka, vice president at Asahi Kasei Microdevices Corp.  “Keysight’s RFIC design tool integrated  with Custom Compiler provides  best-in-class layout and simulation capabilities to design and verify our  millimeter-wave radar chips,” he comments. “We anticipate that the  Synopsys-Keysight collaboration will save us time versus the maintenance of our  in-house developed tools.” The complexity of design requirements for radio frequency integrated circuits  (RFICs) that are used for wireless data transmission, such as transceivers and  RF front-end components, continues to grow. Next-generation wireless systems  target a range of new capabilities including higher bandwidth, more connected  devices, lower latency and better coverage. To address these requirements,  designers need to simulate and measure RF performance to a greater level of  accuracy. The integration of PathWave RFIC Design (GoldenGate) simulation  software (which models complex integrated circuits)  with Synopsys Custom Compiler (part  of the Synopsys Custom Design  Family of products) addresses this challenge by enabling designers to  achieve power and performance optimizations and efficiently deliver 5G and 6G  designs. “Native integration of Keysight’s PathWave RFIC Design (GoldenGate) with Synopsys’ Custom Compiler extends our collaboration to  address end-to-end workflows for increasingly complex wireless designs,” says  Niels Faché, VP & general manager of Keysight’s PathWave Software  Solutions. “This integration enables customers to access Harmonic Balance and Envelope simulation  capabilities, as well as Keysight’s Virtual Test Benches, to reliably compute  error-vector magnitude (EVM) and  adjacent-channel power ratio (ACPR) early in the chip design and verification  process.” Integration of Keysight’s PathWave RFIC Design (GoldenGate) into the Synopsys environment and  Custom Compiler design workflow  provides an enterprise-grade solution for RF and wireless design, delivering  the following key benefits: “To enable key differentiating advantages for 5G/6G designs,  Synopsys is delivering robust RF design solutions that deliver best-in-class  design, simulation and layout productivity workflows,” says Aveek Sarkar, VP of  engineering at Synopsys. “As a result of our strong relationship with Keysight,  our customers can now take advantage of the complementary RFIC simulation  products within the Synopsys Custom Design  Family. The custom design flow  enables a more productive design and verification solution that delivers  significantly faster layout and design closure, providing designers an  accelerated path to meet their speed, bandwidth and data throughput  requirements and time-to-market targets.” This marks a continuation of Keysight’s strategic partnership  with Synopsys, which recently integrated Keysight’s PathWave RFPro with the  Synopsys Custom Compiler design  environment, enabling customers to rapidly and accurately design wireless chips  using TSMC’s N6RF Design Reference Flow. 