Lumentum acquires IPG Photonics’ telecom transmission product lines Lumentum Holdings Inc of San Jose, CA, USA (which  designs and makes optical and photonic  products for optical networks and lasers for industrial and consumer markets)  has acquired the telecom transmission product lines  (optical transceivers and coherent  components) of IPG Photonics Corp of  Oxford, MA, USA (which makes high-power fiber-lasers and amplifiers primarily  for materials processing and other  diverse applications) in an all-cash  transaction. The divested activities include the former Menara Networks and a  subsidiary in Brazil. “While we have  made good progress in developing fundamental technologies in our telecom  transmission business, our ability to scale these product lines would require a step-up in  investment that we believe would be better spent on our core materials processing and adjacent markets,” says  IPG Photonics’ CEO Dr Eugene Scherbakov. “After an in-depth  review, we have determined that participation in the broader telecom market is  non-core to IPG’s strategy. Our strategy is to remain focused on revenue  diversification and growth opportunities in markets where we can increase our  value proposition to customers by  delivering advanced laser processing  and technology solutions. We are exploring substantial new markets and  applications where fiber lasers are  replacing existing laser and non-laser technologies by improving efficiency,  productivity, or enabling technological breakthroughs for our customers,” he  adds. “I am very  excited to add such highly complementary and differentiated transceiver product lines and ASIC capabilities, which help  to expand our addressable market and augment our technology capabilities,” says  Dr Beck Mason, senior VP & general manager, Telecom Transmission at Lumentum. “This  acquisition brings a talented team developing digital communications ASICs, including  coherent DSPs, which complements our silicon and indium phosphide photonic integrated circuit  (PIC) capabilities and creates opportunities for increased vertical integration  in future optical transmission modules,” he adds. “Increasingly, customers in  the cable MSO and wireless network operator space are turning to  wavelength-tunable pluggable transceivers to help expand their network capacity  and this acquisition brings highly synergistic product lines addressing this rapidly growing opportunity.” There is no  impact to Lumentum’s fiscal fourth-quarter 2022 due to this transaction, and  the terms of the transaction were not disclosed. 