AXT’s Q2 revenue up 17% year-on-year For second-quarter 2022, AXT Inc of Fremont, CA, USA  – which manufactures gallium arsenide (GaAs), indium phosphide  (InP) and germanium (Ge) substrates and raw materials at its plants  in China – has reported revenue of $39.5m, down slightly on  $39.7m last quarter but up 17% on $33.7m a year ago. Also, this was despite COVID  playing a role in the last week or two of the quarter, thwarting about $1.5m of  deliveries. Of total  revenue, the proportion from the Asia Pacific region was 74%, Europe was  13%, and North America was 13%. The top five customers generated about 35% of  total revenue (up from 29% last quarter), with just one over 10%. “We continue  to believe that revenue diversity demonstrates our growth is not overly  dependent on any particular customer or application,” says CEO Dr Morris  Young. “This is another factor contributing to our confidence that we have  reached a point of sustainability and can outpace market growth in 2022.” Total  substrate revenue was $31.7m, level with last quarter but up 27.3% on $24.9m a  year ago. By product  category, germanium substrate revenue was $3.9m, down on $4.2m last quarter  (following two of AXT’s highest ever revenue quarters for Ge in Q4/2021 and  Q1/2022). “The satellite solar cell market, which is the primary driver  for germanium, tends to be lumpy,” notes Young. GaAs revenue was $12.2m, up slightly on  $12m last quarter (and the highest since Q3/2012). “Our traditional high-end  LED market demand remains strong in applications such as automotive display and  high-end signage and lighting. We also continue to see strength in high-power  industrial laser applications where we have gained significant market  share,” says Young. “Wi-Fi applications for IoT also helped to drive a modest  increase in revenue over the prior quarter.” InP revenue was again a record $15.7m, up  on $15.5m last quarter. This “puts us well on track to achieve indium phosphide  revenue growth of 30% or more this year,” says Young. “Demand for our product  for 5G telecommunications, data-center and LiDAR applications continue to grow,  overcoming a downstate in the PONs [passive optical networks] market in Q2. We  also saw healthy growth in our new customer applications with its continued  ramp in Q2,” says Young. Revenue was  $7.8m from AXT’s two consolidated raw material joint venture  companies BoYu (which makes high-temperature pyrolytic boron nitride  crucibles and pBN-based tools for organic light-emitting diodes) and JinMei  (which supplies high-purity materials including gallium and germanium, as well  as InP poly and other materials). This is down on $8.8m a year ago but roughly  level with $7.9m in Q1/2022, after very strong growth throughout 2021. “We continue to  achieve strong growth in highly strategic applications, and are currently ramping  several tier-1 customers,” says Young. “This strong  execution has driven first-half revenue growth of 22% over the previous year  and continues to enable us to outperform our market, with emerging  opportunities that will layer on over the coming quarters,” Young adds. On a non-GAAP basis, gross margin was a better-than-expected 39.4%, up  from 33.8% last quarter and 36.4% a year ago. “While there were many  factors that contributed, improved yields (particularly in crystal growth)  was one of the most significant ones,” notes chief financial officer  Gary Fischer.  “Morris conducted regular meetings on yields during his four months in Beijing  [at AXT’s manufacturing facilities, from which he returned recently] and part  of our margin improvement has come as a result of this focus.” Both BoYu and JinMei improved their gross  margins. “The contribution from the equity-method raw material companies  is higher than usual and reflects higher average selling prices (ASPs) for  the raw materials and more units sold,” says Fischer. “A third factor is  that we developed a process technology that enables us to recycle remnants of  indium phosphide processing material. In addition to the gross margin  benefit, this program is another step forward for us in our ESG [environmental, social and governance]  commitment,” he adds. “A fourth factor is product mix - by comparison to  the first quarter, the mix looks pretty similar. However within each substrate  product, the diameter mix can impact gross margin. So product mix was  more favorable in Q2.” Operating expenses were $9.1m, up from $8.6m last quarter and $7.4m a  year ago. Net income was $6.7m ($0.16 per share, exceeding the expected $0.08-0.10), up from $4.3m  ($0.10 per share) last quarter and $5.4m ($0.12 per share) a year ago. Depreciation and amortization was $2m.  Capital investments were $16.8m, of which about $14.8m was facilities construction  (mostly related to adding equipment to expand indium phosphide growth  capacity). During the quarter, cash, cash equivalents  and investments rose by $12.9m, from $44.3m to $57.2m. However, excluding a  $13.8m bank loan received in China, cash reserves are basically unchanged. Net inventory rose further, by $8.5m from  $68.8m to $77.3m, despite the current supply-constrained environment, as AXT  bought ahead in preparation for when demand accelerates. However, 50% of the  inventory is raw materials and work-in-progress (WiP) is 46%. Finished  goods actually declined to only 4% of inventory. “Our strong execution  on a number of fronts has set the stage for great opportunities in the coming  quarters,” believes Young. For Q3/2022, AXT expects revenue of  $39-41m, with continued strong gross margin and net income of $0.15-0.17. Germanium revenue is expected to fall  further to $2-1.9m, as a result of a customer-specific payment issue that is  expected to be resolved before the end of 2022. “Demand is still there. It’s  been improving in the last couple of quarters. It’s all tied to satellites,”  says Fischer. “Industry forecasts for new satellite launches show continued  strength,” adds Young. “Demand across our portfolio continues to  be strong and we are working hard to keep up with customer orders. In  particular, we’re expecting indium phosphide to have healthy growth in Q3, with  multiple tier-1 customers and the breadth of applications driving this,  including data-center, telecom, consumer, driverless cars and others,” says Fischer. “This year, we doubled our indium  phosphide capacity, demonstrating our unique ability to scale quickly and cost  effectively to meet customer demand,” says Young. “Even with the additional  capacity, we expect that there will continue to be supply constraints into next  year. We continue to work closely with our customers to meet their  requirements,” he adds. “We are now qualifying into a second  consumer application for which we delivered pre-production quantities of  indium phosphide wafers in May and June. AXT answered the call on a very  tough product specification, surpassing the best efforts of our competition,”  says Young. “We are now in a position to build meaningful revenue in a  brand-new market for AXT and we are also engaging with other tier-1 customers  for opportunities that were previously not available to us.” “We are achieving notable success in the  development of larger-diameter substrates that we believe will enable the next  generation of technology innovation across a number of end-markets,” says  Young. “We have achieved an important milestone in the development of 6-inch  InP. We are now producing and beginning to sell prime device-quality wafers of  6-inch InP,” he adds. “The material quality of our large-diameter substrates  demonstrate our commitment to excellence and the differentiation of our VGF  [vertical gradient freeze] crystal growth process. We’re pleased to  be able to offer our customers meaningful advantages in scalability, low stress  and low defect rates as new high-volume application comes to market.” Gallium arsenide for lasers and LEDs is  also growing well. “In RF devices, demand is expected to come down a bit in Q3  but we continue to focus on strengthening our position for future  opportunities. We made good use of the tighter environment to renew our  relationship with key customers and believe we have laid important groundwork  for future market share growth,” says Young. “Our new manufacturing  facility, coupled with our achievement of several tier-1 customers, have  demonstrated our ability to support customers in this space with high-volume,  high-quality substrates,” he adds. “On our 8-inch gallium arsenide  development program, we now have two major customers for this product and we  are working with them on design specifications, giving us increasing confidence  that there is a real market developing for large diameter in gallium arsenide,”  says Young. “We believe that 8-inch substrate will be an important enabler for  new high-volume applications over the next several years,” he adds. Revenue from the two consolidated  joint ventures should remain solid in Q3. “In particular, JinMei has been  contributing well. It has continued to diversify its product offering beyond  high-purity gallium,” says Young. “Since relocating to our Kazuo location,  JinMei has more capacity and state-of-the-art facilities. Today, it also offers  purified indium and indium phosphide poly for sale. In addition, JinMei  successfully developed the gallium recycling program, which is helping us  drive the efficiency in our cost structure. Both indium and BoYu have a strong  R&D culture that is contributing to innovation to new offerings that  enhance their value.” In  late December, AXT’s China-based wafer manufacturing subsidiary Beijing Tongmei Xtal  Technology Co Ltd submitted its application to list its shares in an initial public offering  on the Sci-Tech innovAtion boaRd (STAR Market) of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE). On  10 January, the SSE formally accepted the application for  review. Subsequently, Tongmei responded to several rounds of questions received  from the SSE. On 12 July, the SSE approved the listing. The IPO remains  subject to review and approval by the China Securities Regulatory Commission  (CSRC) and other authorities. AXT notes that the process of going public on the  STAR Market includes several periods of review and is therefore a lengthy  process. Subject to review and approval by the CSRC and other authorities,  Tongmei expects to accomplish this goal in second-half 2022, probably in Q4/2022. 