onsemi expands silicon carbide production facility in New Hampshire Power semiconductor IC supplier onsemi of  Phoenix, AZ, USA has held a ribbon-cutting  ceremony to inaugurate its new silicon carbide  (SiC) facility in Hudson, New Hampshire.  Signifying the importance of semiconductor manufacturing in the USA was the  attendance of multiple guests of honor led by US Secretary of Commerce Gina  Raimondo. Also present were US Senators Jeanne Shaheen and Maggie Hassan from  New Hampshire, and Representatives  Chris Pappas and Annie Kuster from the 1st and 2nd congressional districts of  New Hampshire, respectively, as well  as other local governmental dignitaries.  Picture:   Ribbon-cutting ceremony at onsemi’s new  SiC production facility in Hudson, NH. Attendees from left to right: Felicity  Carson, senior VP & CMO, onsemi;  US Senator Maggie Hassan (NH); Catherine Côté, VP & chief of staff to the  CEO, onsemi; US Senator Jeanne Shaheen (NH); Tobin Cookman, senior VP of human resources,  onsemi; Hassane El-Khoury, president, CEO & director, onsemi; US Secretary  of Commerce Gina Raimondo; Joe Loiselle, VP of SiC operations & general manager of Hudson site, onsemi; US  Representative Annie Kuster (NH-02); Simon Keeton, executive VP & general manager Power Solutions  Group, onsemi; Thad Trent, executive VP  & chief financial officer,  onsemi; Rep. Chris Pappas (NH-01); Dr Wei-Chung  Wang, executive VP of global  manufacturing & operations, onsemi. The site will increase the firm’s SiC boule production capacity by  five times year-over-year and almost quadruple the number of its employees in  Hudson by the end of 2022. The expansion gives onsemi full control of its SiC  manufacturing supply chain, starting  with the sourcing of silicon carbide  powder and graphite raw material to  the delivery of fully packaged SiC  devices. onsemi says that this allows it to provide customers with the  assurance of supply required to meet rapidly growing demand for SiC-based  solutions. SiC is critical for enabling efficiency in electric vehicles (EVs), EV charging and energy infrastructure and is an important  contributor on the path to decarbonization. The SiC total addressable market  (TAM) is projected to increase at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 33%  from $2bn in 2021 to $6.5bn in 2026. “In addition to market-leading efficiency of our products, our  end-to-end vertically integrated solution in a supply-constrained environment  is a compelling and differentiated competitive advantage,” reckons Simon  Keeton, executive VP & general manager Power Solutions Group at onsemi. “We have already expanded to a  second building as we increased our substrate capacity and plan to continue  ramping, allowing us to source our own cutting-edge SiC wafers for customer  products.” onsemi claims to be the only large-scale supplier of both SiC and  insulated-gate bipolar transistors (IGBT) solutions with end-to-end supply  capability. During its second-quarter earnings call in early August, the firm  announced $4bn of committed SiC revenue for the next three years through long-term supply agreements  with a broad base of customers. It will triple last year’s silicon carbide revenue in 2022 and exceed $1bn  in revenue in 2023, further emphasizing onsemi’s progress in SiC. The inauguration ceremony comes only days after US President Joe  Biden signed into law the CHIPS and Science Act, which aims to strengthen  supply chain resiliency and help to  avoid disruptions for critical components affecting every sector of the  economy. 