Color-tuning in V-groove InGaN μLEDs Researcher Matthew  Hartensveld of US-based firm Innovation Semiconductor Inc has demonstrated indium gallium nitride (InGaN) micro-LEDs capable of emitting tunable  colors across the blue-to-red visible range from 425nm to 640nm [Optics  Express, v30, p27314, 2022]. The devices are capable of covering the 1996  HP/Microsoft ‘standard’ red-green-blue (sRGB) color space for use on monitors,  printers and the internet. Although V-grooves have previously been  found to enhance LED performance through improved carrier injection and  minimizing charge recombination in threading dislocations, Hartensveld claims  to be the first to use V-grooves to achieve color-tunable emission. Hartensveld sees potential for the proposal  to be deployed in full-color displays, offering high efficiency, environmental  ruggedness, greater scaling, and higher brightness over competing technologies.  Up to now, proposals for μLED  displays tend to use different material families to achieve the different  colors: aluminium indium gallium phosphide (AlInGaP) for red,  and InGaN for blue and green. Such an approach is difficult to integrate at low  cost. Further, the efficiency of AlInGaP μLEDs suffers from higher losses associated with  sidewall leakage, relative to InGaN devices. Rather than reducing defects, the devices  used the resulting V-grooves nucleated at threading screw dislocations to give  regions with different indium content and band structure (Figure 1), resulting in different emission wavelengths.  Away from the V-groove green light was emitted, while deep in the grooves lower  indium incorporation through the semi-polar facet gave blue light. At the same  time, strain relaxation near the groove increased indium incorporation,  resulting in red emission.  Figure  1: (a) Schematic of V-groove in color-tunable LEDs showing varying indium content and hole injection pathways,  (b) transmission electron micrograph of grown structure showing V-groove. Hartensveld comments: “Past works have  sought to minimize V-groove inclusion, though a growing body of recent reports  suggest the overall benefits to V-groove inclusion due to the ability to  provide an energy barrier to minimize carrier recombination in threading  dislocations and provide strain relief through a free surface depression.” 