Penn State orders another Veeco GENxplor R&D MBE system for opto materials research Epitaxial deposition and  process equipment maker Veeco Instruments Inc of Plainview, NY, USA has received an order from the  Pennsylvania State University for  its GENxplor R&D molecular beam  epitaxy (MBE) system, to be used to enable the epitaxial growth of high-quality  III-V compound semiconductor materials  for applications including lasers and next-generation infrared plasmonic  meta-materials. Penn State  purchased the GENxplor system for its capability to produce exceptional quality  epitaxial films, according to professor Stephanie Law. “As a researcher  familiar with the performance of Veeco’s GENxplor R&D system, this was an  easy decision to add this system to our research facility,” says Law. “The  reliable design and superior technology of the GENxplor system will no doubt  strengthen our efforts to drive significant advancements in meta-material and  long-wavelength photonics research.” The GENxplor system deposits high-quality  epitaxial layers on substrates up to 3-inch in diameter. Its efficient  single-frame design combines all vacuum hardware with on-board electronics to  make it up to 40% smaller than other MBE systems, it is reckoned, saving  valuable lab space. Through Veeco’s MBE engineering expertise, design  optimizations have made the GENxplor platform a capable research system that is  tailored to meet the unique challenges of compound semiconductor  material R&D. Its modular design supports existing research while enabling  the integration of new materials and capabilities in the future. “Since its introduction, the GENxplor has  enabled essential compound semiconductor  research at the top universities, such as Penn State,  and institutions around the world,” notes Matthew Marek, senior director of marketing & site leader for Veeco’s MBE Group. “This second endorsement from  professor Law further solidifies the GENxplor as the leading R&D MBE system  in the industry.” 