Catania and ST launch Advanced Master’s Program in Power Electronics Devices and Technologies Wide-bandgap semiconductor-based technologies guarantee more  efficient power electronics  performance in line with sustainable development. Looking to educate and expand  the pool of professionals in the key power technologies  for industrial sectors such as automotive, renewable energy, energy conversion and storage, the University of  Catania Department of Electrical, Electronic and Information Engineering  (DIEEI) and integrated device manufacturer STMicroelectronics of Geneva,  Switzerland are launching an advanced master’s degree program in Power Electronics Devices and Technologies. “Training highly skilled professionals in power electronics is  strongly demanded by the market to meet the needs identified by macro-trends in  energy efficiency and sustainable  development,” says professor Mario Cacciato, coordinator of the Master’s course.  “This program offers master’s graduates in various scientific disciplines  (STEM) the opportunity to direct their education and training towards topics of  great interest for research and industry. In addition, this new Advanced  Master’s degree represents a model of synergy between academia and industry  aimed at the professional development and future employment of young talents,”  he adds. “Developments in power electronics play a key role in  energy-efficiency processes and make it possible for modern society to meet the  challenge of sustainable development. Rapid changes in power electronics require training specialists  with multi-disciplinary skills,” says Giuseppe Arena, program management office director, Power Transistor Sub-Group, STMicroelectronics.  “Combining theoretical lectures with experimental activities performed with  experts from ST adds major value to the training and development of the next  generation of highly skilled professionals.” The new advanced master’s degree offers both theoretical and  practical training. Coursework is divided into seven teaching modules,  conducted in English. Lectures will be presented by university professors and  professionals from ST, who will also act as mentors in the final internships  inside the company’s departments and research laboratories. Moreover, some  lectures will be held at ST’s Catania site. Trainees will also participate in  seminars led by experts from several major international companies in the  sector. The advanced program is open to graduates holding a master’s  degree obtained in the last five years  in Electrical Engineering, Electronic Engineering, Automation Engineering,  Chemistry, Computer Engineering, Telecommunications Engineering, Mechanical  Engineering, Chemical Engineering, Materials Science and Engineering, and  Chemical Industry Science and Technology. Mastery of English is also required. The advanced master’s degree program will admit a maximum of 30  participants. It awards 60 university credits (CFU) upon completion. Moreover,  the program will award a scholarship to ten participants, while another ten  students will receive a contribution to cover tuition fees. Applications must  be submitted by 19 September. The Scientific Committee is composed of University of Catania  professors Mario Cacciato (coordinator), Giuseppe Compagnini, Guglielmo Guido  Condorelli, Salvatore Mirabella, Salvatore Pennisi and Antonio Terrasi, along  with Giuseppe Arena, Michele Calabretta, Mario Saggio, Rosario Scollo, Filippo  Scrimizzi, and Vincenzo Randazzo of STMicroelectronics. 