MICLEDI launches first micro-LED devices with integrated micro-lenses MICLEDI Microdisplays B.V. of Leuven,  Belgium – a fabless developer of micro-LED display modules for  augmented reality (AR) glasses – has announced what it claims are the first micro-LED devices with  integrated micro-lenses for pixel-level beam shaping,  manufactured in the firm’s proprietary 300mm manufacturing flow. The new family is said to enable multiple benefits for  waveguide-based AR glasses, including: Samples and test kits of blue and green micro-LED arrays, plus  blue arrays with micro-lenses, have been delivered to customers this summer,  with red micro-LEDs coming in fourth-quarter 2022. Available for both micro-LED  device evaluation and for display integration with waveguides, customers will  see FHD display blocks and a variety of other micro-LED structures with mesa  sizes down to 0.5μm, and with micro-lens  reference designs by MICLEDI. Picture:       MICLEDI’s micro-LED devices are first to offer integrated  micro-lenses for pixel-level beam shaping. The  micro-LED display die is in a JLCC84 package for ease of customer testing and  characterization. “We are tremendously excited to reach this milestone with  customer-quality samples of each of our RGB arrays,” says CEO Sean Lord.  “Customers have been clamoring for these enhanced devices. With micro-lenses,  we are pleased to point out that one of the hottest demands from the field,  micro-LED wall-plug-efficiency at ‘AR’ pitch, will be at best-in-class levels.  In parallel, we are working on our first RGB modules and exploring approaches  for polychromatic RGB integration.” MICLEDI has also pioneered the development of a modeling platform  for micro-lens customization. The platform will be available for AR customers  to evaluate the new technology in simulations and to design their own  micro-lenses for specific waveguide configurations. Those can then be  prototyped using MICLEDI’s manufacturing capabilities. “Integration of the micro-lenses in a tightly pitched micro-LED  device is a highlight of MICLEDI’s unique manufacturing capabilities using  300mm wafer fab equipment,” says  co-founder & chief technology officer Dr Soeren Steudel. “High-quality beam shaping requires extreme precision and  nanometer-scale overlay accuracy that can only be met in a 300mm wafer fab,” he adds. MICLEDI is exhibiting at table #551  at the SPIE Optics + Photonics conference in San Diego,  CA, USA (21-25 August). 