Micro-LED transparent AR smart glasses chip market to grow to $38.3m by 2026 Micro-LED light engine performance beats micro-OLEDs (organic  light-emitting diodes) in terms of brightness, contrast ratio and  responsiveness in transparent augmented-reality (AR) smart glasses  micro-displays and is ideal for applications in outdoor environments, according  to the report ‘TrendForce 2022 Self-Emitting Micro LED Display Cost and  Trend Analysis’. Since 2021, more than 10 branded manufacturers around the world  have launched micro-LED transparent AR smart glasses concepts, and related  suppliers have improved micro-LED technology and accelerated factory expansion  in order to meet subsequent mass-production planning. Revenue for micro-LED  transparent AR smart glasses chips is forecast to rise at a compound annual  growth rate (CAGR) of 704% from 2023 to about $38.3m in 2026. However, the current difficulties encountered in the development  of micro-LED transparent AR smart glasses mainly arise from optical  waveguide technology, light engine technology, battery storage  capacity, and image transmission issues. Since transparent smart glasses  require high-resolution and high-brightness specifications for outdoor use,  micro-LEDs are the first choice for the light engine. At present, micro-LED light engine technology is not yet  mature and the external quantum efficiency of red chips is too low.  Problems regarding the miniaturization of micro-displays have appeared one by  one. In addition, micro-display sizes are too small, resulting in a  small field of view (FOV) so narrow as to affect viewing. If the optical waveguide design method is employed, optical  efficiency falls at less than 1%, and incidental light must provide higher  brightness to meet the specifications necessary for outdoor use of  micro-displays. In addition, transparent smart glasses will need to be  worn for a certain period of time. Therefore, battery lifespan and size directly  affect product design. Furthermore, another major obstacle is finding a way to  integrate the sensor to transmit and process image data. At its Micro LED Forum 2022 on 13 September, TrendForce  will reveal the current technological progress of various manufacturers in  developing transparent AR smart glasses. Many technical fields are focused  on the development of optics and light engines. In the field of optics,  TrendForce invited Kura Technologies to share their 8K resolution and FOV 150  micro-LED transparent AR smart glasses, in a departure from products  offered by other manufacturers that can only reach 1080P and FOV 50. In  addition, ams OSRAM will analyze the market segmentation, application  standards, and technical challenges of transparent AR smart glasses and  discusses the differences between micro-LED micro-projection displays and LBS  laser beam scanning display technology. In the field of light engines, JBD has been aggressively  developing light engines for micro-LED transparent AR smart glasses  in recent years. JBD announced a large-scale investment and construction plan  in 2022 and established long-term strategic cooperation agreements with a  number of optical waveguide manufacturers. The firm also achieved a major  technological breakthrough, producing a micro-LED chip capable of emitting  500,000 nits of ultra-high-brightness red light, injecting fresh  momentum into the transparent AR smart glasses field. Porotech, a UK-based  micro-LED chip maker focusing on AR applications, developed a new porous GaN  semiconductor material technology to complete the development of micro-LED red light  chips that can improve external quantum efficiency (EQE) to resolve the  full-color light source issue inherent in transparent AR smart glasses. TrendForce indicates that, as micro-LED light engine and  optical technology continues to progress and brands plan new products, there  will be prospects to accelerate the advent of a commercial viable micro-LED  transparent AR smart glasses product. When the technology and costs are in  place, business opportunities will extend from military, medical, aviation and  industrial fields to commercial and comprehensive consumer applications,  concludes the report. 