NUBURU to go public via Tailwind Acquisition High-power industrial blue laser technology firm  NUBURU Inc (which was founded in 2015) and special-purpose  acquisition company TWND Corp have announced a definitive agreement that  puts NUBURU on the path to becoming a publicly listed company. The combined  company named NUBURU Inc will continue to be based in Centennial, CO, USA,  led by CEO, co-founder & president Dr Mark Zediker and other key  executive leadership, and expects to be traded under the ticker symbol ‘BURU’. In 2017, NUBURU introduced what it claimed was the first  industrial blue laser, starting with the standard AO laser and the  extreme-brightness AI laser, which enable gains in speed and quality for metal  processing across e-mobility and automotive, energy storage, aerospace and  additive manufacturing. In many industrial applications, critical materials such as  copper, gold and aluminium do not absorb much of the infrared wavelengths  transmitted by traditional industrial lasers, which leads to lower-quality  joints than by using NUBURU’s industrial blue lasers, which leverage a  fundamental physical advantage to produce defect-free welds that are up to  eight times faster than the traditional approaches — all with the flexibility  inherent to laser processing. NUBURU’s blue lasers also address complex  situations such as the joining of dissimilar metals. “As electrification and advances in manufacturing drive growth in  our target markets, this capital infusion is intended to provide continued  momentum for NUBURU,” says CEO, co-founder & president Dr Mark Zediker.  “Looking ahead, we are focused on growing our customer base, expanding our  distribution channels, accelerating development of our ultra-high-brightness  product family and scaling our manufacturing operations to meet demand  globally. Our partnership with TWND is expected to accelerate our expansion  plans to allow us to benefit from a position of strength in the public  markets,” he adds. “Our goal at TWND is to partner with a founder-led company that  has a large addressable market and is positioned for rapid and sustainable  long-term growth based on its technology, innovation and industry leadership,”  says TWND’s CEO Chris Hollod. NUBURU’s solutions for metal processing are  critical to 3D printing, aerospace, consumer electronics and  e-mobility, he adds. The business combination values NUBURU at a pre-money enterprise  value of about $350m, at a price of $10 per common share. The boards of  directors of TWND and NUBURU have each unanimously approved the proposed  transaction, which is expected to be completed in early 2023, subject to, among  other things, the approval by NUBURU’s stockholders and TWND’s stockholders,  expiration of certain diligence periods without termination by TWND or Lincoln Park  Capital and satisfaction or waiver of other customary closing conditions. The transaction will result in gross proceeds of up to about $334m  to NUBURU (assuming no redemptions from the trust account by the TWND public  stockholders and prior to the payment of transaction expenses), together with  access to additional financing to help fund its growth initiatives through a  funding agreement with Lincoln Park Capital for up to $100m, subject to  the closing of the transaction and other conditions set forth in the purchase  agreement entered into between TWND, NUBURU and Lincoln Park Capital. Each holder of Class A common stock of  TWND will receive one unlisted share of Series A Preferred Stock of the surviving company upon the  closing for each share of TWND Class A common stock held  immediately following the closing. The preferred stock is a senior security  with a $10 per share liquidation preference, and the  preferred shares, at the option of each holder, can be sold to the company for  its liquidation value following the second anniversary of the closing. Holders  of Class A common stock who elect to redeem their shares will receive  $10 plus any applicable interest per share at the closing, but will not  receive any Preferred Shares. “We thoughtfully designed this innovative preferred share  structure so that holders of Class A common stock – whether individual  or institutional – would be treated equally and would benefit from the ability  to receive this additional consideration, rather than making the preferred share  available only via a private placement that is not typically accessed by  individual investors,” says Hollod. 