Optical transceiver market growing at 15% CAGR to $24.7m in 2027 The optical transceiver market is rising  at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR)  of 15% from $10.4bn in 2021 to about $24.7bn in 2027, estimates the report  ‘Optical Transceivers for Datacom & Telecom 2022’ from Yole  Group. Despite the profound implications of the  COVID-19 outbreak for the telecom infrastructure supply chain, consumers and business users worldwide continue to demand new  networking and cloud services. Social networking, business meetings, video  streaming in ultra-high  definition (UHD), e-commerce and  gaming applications will continue to drive growth, notes the report. With the  advent of new digital devices with improved capabilities and intelligence,  adoption rates are increasing year by year. In addition, expanding  machine-to-machine applications, such as smart meters, video surveillance,  healthcare monitoring, connected drives, and automated logistics, contribute  significantly to device and connection growth and push the expansion of  data-center infrastructure. Optical modules have become an essential technology  in telecommunication infrastructure. The development of semiconductor technologies  such as lasers, modulators and digital signal processors (DSPs)  has enabled increased bandwidth and accelerated data rates. Optical interconnects are ubiquitous  and are intended to provide high bandwidth even for very short-reach  applications, such as high-power computing and artificial intelligence/machine learning (AI/ML) applications within data centers. Silicon photonics (SiPh) as a technology platform, co-packaged  optics assembly as a new switch architecture, and coherence in compact form factors are the trends that will drive the  market for the next five years,  reckons Yole.  Picture:   Optical  transceiver revenue growth forecast by datacom application, 2021-2027 (source: ‘Optical Transceivers for Datacom  & Telecom – Market and Technology Report 2022’ from Yole Intelligence). “Growth is  driven by high-volume adoption of high-data-rate modules above 400G by big  cloud service operators  and national telecom operators requiring increased fiber-optic network  capacity,” notes Martin Vallo Ph.D., senior analyst, Photonics (specializing in  optical communication and semiconductor lasers within the Photonics and Sensing  division at Yole Intelligence, part of Yole Group). The evolution of multiple technologies  has enabled data rates of 400G, 600G, 800G and beyond across  data-center infrastructure and in long-haul and metro networks. 400GbE  deployments are ramping across data-center networks. Many cloud providers and  telecom operators are now starting to deploy an 800Gbps optical ecosystem to  increase bandwidth capacity and keep pace with the growing demand for data.  Today’s modern Ethernet-switch application-specific  integrated circuits (ASICs)  providing 25.6Tb/s total capacity are running at a 50Gbps SerDes (serialization/deserialization) lane rate driven by 50G PAM-4 modulation technology. In line-cards, a re-timer  is typically needed to synchronize PAM-4 data from the switch to the optical  interface. In 400G optical modules, an additional silicon gearbox chip can be  used to convert 50G PAM-4 electrical inputs and outputs (I/Os)  to 100G per wavelength optical I/Os to connect to 100G  single-wavelength optics. The next generation of ASIC chips expected in 2023  will provide 51.2Tb/s total capacity and run at a 100Gbps SerDes lane rate. This significantly simplifies  electro-optic conversion within the switch system and accelerates the exchange  of high-speed optical modules. Yole anticipates high popularity for 800G  modules as they take advantage of 100G single-wavelength optics already proven  in 400GbE systems and thus can be technically and cost-effectively implemented  in QSFP-DD and OSFP form factors. Yole Group is collaborating with the  24th China International Optoelectronic Expo (CIOE 2022) in Shenzhen, China to organize the Forum on Optical Transceivers and Silicon Photonics on 8 September. 