HG places new shares and announces subscription of shares and warrants by GCL’s founder Hong Kong-based  HG Semiconductor Ltd  has announced placement of 30 million  new shares at the placing price of HK$3.20 per share  to no less than six placees. In addition, the group has entered into an  investment agreement with Profit Act Ltd, an entity indirectly wholly owned by GCL Technology  Holdings Ltd’s founder, chairman  & executive director Zhu Gongshan,  pursuant to which the group had conditionally agreed to allot and issue, and  the strategic investor had conditionally agreed to subscribe for 60 million subscription shares and 60 million warrants. As at 5 August,  the group has 563,591,000 shares in issue. Pursuant to the placing agreement,  the placing shares represent about 5.32% of the existing issued share capital  of the group. After deducting the placing commission and other relevant  expenses, the maximum net proceeds will amount to about HK$93.6m. The group  intends to use about HK$78m of the proceeds for strengthening its R&D  capabilities of semiconductor business including light-emitting diode (LED),  mini-LED, fast charging, gallium nitride (GaN) devices and related  products, which includes set-up of R&D centres, recruitment of R&D  professionals, and the procurement of equipment and materials with an aim to  develop and/or capture patent and technology. The remains of the net proceeds  will be used for provision of general working capital  and improving the financial position of the group. Regarding the investment agreement with  strategic investor, the shares subscription price is HK$3 per subscription share, while the subscription price of  each warrant share upon exercise of the warrants will be HK$3.68. After  deduction of relevant costs and expenses, the gross and net proceeds from the  shares subscription and full exercising of the subscription rights attaching to  the warrants will be about HK$180m and HK$220.8m, respectively. The group proposes to use the proceeds  from the shares subscription and warrants subscription for the development of  GaN business. The subscription shares and warrants  shares cannot be sold or transferred for 18 months,  commencing on the date of issuance. Meanwhile, the strategic investor will  conduct due diligence examinations on the group regarding its business,  financial, and legal aspects etc. If the results of the due diligence  examinations are to the satisfaction of Zhu Gongshan,  the strategic investor will participate in the shares subscription and the  warrants subscription. The subscription shares and warrant shares will be  allotted and issued under the shares specific mandate to be sought from the  shareholders at an extraordinary general meeting  (EGM). Zhu is the founder, chairman &  executive director of GCL Technology  Holdings Ltd. He was a member of the  12th National Committee of the  Chinese People's Political Consultative  Conference (CPPCC) and is currently a member of the 12th Jiangsu Province Committee of the CPPCC, chairman  of the Global Green Energy Industry  Council, the vice chairman of Global  Innovation Centre, chairman of the Asian Photovoltaic Industry Association,  deputy director of the Green and Low Carbon Development Promotion Committee of  the China Enterprise Confederation, executive VP  of the Energy Storage and Electric Vehicle Branch of China Electricity  Council. Over the years, Zhu has been deeply involved in the fields of electric power, photovoltaic, natural gas, new energy  vehicle (NEV) operation and semiconductors. HG says that the investment  agreement between the group and the strategic investor signifies the trust and  support of Zhu Gongshan, giving the  group a strong vote of confidence in further solidifying the business  strategies and development of GaN. The new investors follow the personal  investment in HG Semiconductor by Dr Justin  Chiu, executive director of CK Asset  Holdings Ltd. HG reckons that the  shares subscription and warrants subscription represent an opportunity to raise  additional capital for expanding its GaN business, expediting the group's  development. In view of the steadfast development of global new energy vehicles (coupled with global  geopolitical risks and other factors), various countries fully support the development  of the semiconductor industry (particularly third-generation semiconductors),  so HG reckons that its GaN business has bright prospects. Leveraging the  background of Zhu Gongshan as a  strategic shareholder, the group expects (i) further coordination of resources  in the new energy industry with the  strategic investor alongside strategic synergy with the group's  third-generation semiconductors (especially power chips) to form complementary  industrial resources; (ii) the use of the strategic investor's financial  resources and business network in the financial system to assist the group in  the rapid development of production capacity and products; (iii) facilitating  the group to work closely with local governments to improve the policies and  support for the third-generation semiconductor industry; and (iv) that the  strategic investor will share experience in operation and management to assist  the group in building up its talent, operations, technology and R&D. Looking ahead, HG will continue to  proactively pursue technological innovation, refine its business strategies to  capture market opportunities and  accelerate growth in its GaN semiconductor business, striving to generate  continuous and stable returns for its shareholders in the long run. 