US DOE launches $20m NREL-administered Cadmium Telluride Accelerator Consortium The US Department of Energy (DOE) has  announced the launch of the Cadmium Telluride Accelerator Consortium — a  $20m initiative designed to make cadmium telluride (CdTe) solar cells  less expensive, more efficient and develop new markets for solar cell  products. CdTe solar cells were first developed  in the USA and are the second most common photovoltaic technology in the world  after silicon. Without strengthened domestic manufacturing capacity, the USA  will continue to rely on clean energy imports, exposing it to supply chain  vulnerabilities while simultaneously losing out on the job opportunities  associated with the energy transition, it is reckoned. The consortium’s efforts  to spur technological advancements aims to increase the USA’s competitiveness,  bolster domestic innovation, and support clean electricity deployment  supporting President Biden’s goal of achieving a net-zero economy by 2050. “As solar continues its reign as one of  the cheapest forms of energy powering our homes and businesses, we are  committed to a solar future that is built by American workers,” says US Secretary of Energy  Jennifer M. Granholm. “DOE is proud to  partner with leading solar researchers and companies to chart the future of  CdTe technology, which presents an immense opportunity for domestic  manufacturers to help ensure our nation’s security while providing  family-sustaining jobs,” she says. “To move America forward, we need an  all-of-the-above strategy that propels our energy independence, lowers costs,  and creates good-paying jobs,” says Marcy Kaptur, US Representative for Ohio’s 9th congressional district.  “Northern Ohio has already revolutionized the field of solar technology.  Now, through this remarkable partnership between the US Department of Energy,  the University of Toledo, and First Solar [whose US manufacturing plant is  in Perrysburg, OH] – our region will become a hub of next-generation energy  innovation that is built right here at home by Ohio’s workers,” she adds. The new Cadmium Telluride Accelerator  Consortium will work on continued cost and efficiency improvements that aim to  make CdTe cheaper and more efficient, and more competitive on the global  market. To achieve these goals, the team has a broad research plan that  includes CdTe doping strategies, characterizing and exploring new CdTe  contacting materials, and work to enable a bifacial CdTe module that absorbs  light from the front and back of the module. DOE’s National Renewable Energy  Laboratory (NREL) will administer the consortium, whose leaders were chosen  through a competitive solicitation that NREL released last year. The consortium  will be led by the University of Toledo, First Solar, Colorado State  University, Toledo Solar Inc, and Sivananthan Laboratories Inc. NREL will serve as a resource, support and  technical analysis center as the consortium develops a technology roadmap,  conducts research to meet targets set within the roadmap, and regularly  assesses the domestic CdTe supply chain for challenges and opportunities.  The consortium aims to expand domestic CdTe photovoltaic material and module  production,  support the domestic CdTe supply chain, and enhance US  competitiveness. DOE’s  continued investment in CdTe technology Through NREL and a long-standing  partnership with First Solar, DOE has been a leader in CdTe research.  DOE’s Solar Energy Technologies Office (SETO) supports research focused on  overcoming the current technological and commercial barriers for CdTe cells.  SETO has awarded funding for research, development and demonstration of methods  to improve reliability and lower the cost of CdTe technology. DOE’s Solar Photovoltaics  Supply Chain Review Report  identified CdTe as an opportunity for expanding domestic production of solar  panels, up to the limit that CdTe material availability allows, with little  risk of being overtaken by low-cost foreign competition. The FY22 Solar Manufacturing  Incubator funding opportunity, announced in July, will support projects  that ready new technologies and manufacturing processes for commercialization  and demonstrate solutions that can boost domestic manufacturing of thin-film  photovoltaics made from CdTe. 