Manz terminates negotiations with Chinese partner on completion of CIGSfab solar project Equipment  maker Manz AG of Reutlingen, Germany – which has three Solar, Electronics and Energy Storage  strategic business units, and  supplies integrated production lines for copper indium gallium diselenide (CIGS) solar cells and modules – is  terminating negotiations with its Chinese customer Chongqing Shenhua  Thin Film Solar Technology Co Ltd after no agreement could be  reached on completion of the large-scale solar project CIGSfab. Manz is hence making a related non-cash  impairment of €23.2m on a contractual  asset. Since 2017, Manz  had been working on the major project for the Chinese partner with a planned  total order volume of about €218m, which was interrupted in December 2020 at  the customer’s request. By the end of 2020, Manz had received payments of about  €175m, but had already provided services with a total value of €198m. As  already described in detail in the Annual Report 2021 as well as the  Annual General Meeting 2022, Manz’s  managing board had previously assumed that the customer would fulfill the  associated contractually outstanding payments. Contrary to expectations,  however, it has not been possible to reach a mutual solution between the  contractual parties to date. Therefore, Manz is now pursuing the goal of  asserting its claims through the courts. Due to the impact  on earnings development resulting from the decision and against the backdrop of  the unexpectedly strong increase in raw material and energy costs, a  changed project mix, ongoing challenges in global supply chains, and  increased economic uncertainties among Manz’s customers, Manz’s managing board is adjusting its  forecast for the 2022 fiscal year (to be announced on 4 August, together  with key financial figures for first-half 2022). “We will now consistently focus our efforts  on the implementation of our growth strategy in the automotive & electro-mobility,  battery manufacturing, electronics, energy, and medical technology industries,”  says CEO Martin Drasch. “Accordingly,  we are not undertaking any further technological developments in CIGS thin-film  solar technology and have discontinued market development. In the e-mobility  market in particular, we have established a strong position as a high-tech  equipment manufacturer to benefit from the immense market potential.” Manz  says that it has recently been able to use this momentum to its advantage and  convince numerous international customers with its years of experience in  developing innovative production concepts and solutions. 