Automated single-wafer ashing of compound semiconductors Ashing, in which light-sensitive photoresist coating is removed  and cleaned from an etched wafer, is one of the most important and frequently  performed steps in chip fabrication. In this step, photoresist organics are  ‘burned off’ using a processing tool in which monatomic plasma is created  by exposing oxygen or fluorine gas at low pressure to high-power radio waves.  Previously, wafer ashing was largely done using batch processing techniques to  achieve the required throughput. However, unlike silicon semiconductors, where wafers are  mass produced in the standard 300mm size, compound semiconductors  made of silicon carbide, gallium arsenide, gallium nitride and  sapphire can vary in size between 100mm and 200mm in diameter. When this is the  case, significantly better uniformity of photoresist removal is required, which  means better temperature and process controls. As a result, most  compound semiconductor wafer manufacturers require automated, single-wafer  processing tools capable of fast ashing rates and high  production levels. “Today, semiconductor manufacturers are increasingly looking for a  single-wafer ashing solution for both high-temperature photoresist removal and  precision descum,” says Wolfgang Pleyer, senior application engineer at  PVA TePla of Munich, Germany, a provider of microwave and radio frequency  (RF) plasma systems with US operations in California. Microwave plasma ashing For 50 years, most plasma tools have used RF for stripping  photoresists. RF plasma etches the surface through a physical process that  essentially bombards the surface with plasma in a specific direction. “In the past, you could simply increase the DC bias and remove  everything,” says Pleyer. “But RF plasma is not as selective in attacking  photoresist. Also, when the photoresist is removed, the underlying layers of  the wafer may be sensitive and could be damaged with RF.” Today, microwave-based plasma tools produce a very high  concentration of chemically active species and low ion bombardment energy,  ensuring both a fast ash rate and a damage-free plasma cleaning. “Microwave tends to be quicker and produce  higher ash rates than RF,” says Pleyer. Targeted photoresist removal using oxygen Advanced microwave-based plasma ashing systems from manufacturers  such as PVA TePla often utilize oxygen as the primary process gas.  The oxygen ashes the wafers very selectively and attacks only the photoresist,  leaving the rest of the wafer untouched. Unfortunately, using a pure oxygen process is not always  compatible with all types of wafer surfaces; some require a combination of  gases. 