Enhancing MOCVD N-polar LEDs Jilin University and Zhengzhou University  in China have reported progress in enhancing the performance of indium gallium nitride (InGaN) light-emitting diodes (LEDs) grown by metal-organic chemical vapor deposition (MOCVD) in the nitrogen- rather than gallium-polar  direction [Yang Wang et  al, Optics Letters, v47, p3628, 2022]. The researchers  hope that their efforts “will facilitate the development of N-polar GaN-based  long-wavelength light-emitting devices for application in micro-LED displays.” The potential advantages of using N-polar  III-nitride material include an enhanced incorporation of indium atoms,  allowing longer wavelengths to be emitted. Another benefit in N-polar devices comes  from the reversal of the electrical fields arising from the differences in  charge polarization of the various III-N bonds in the different heterostructure  layers. In Ga-polar material these fields inhibit electron-hole recombination into  photons due to the quantum-confined Stark effect (QCSE). The N-polar field reversal of the fields weakens the  QCSE. The polarization field reversal also  eliminates the barrier to electron injection into the quantum well (QW) active region, while also increasing the barrier against  electron overflow from the QW into the p-type hole injector structure. Despite these advantages for N-polar  devices, the Ga-polar structure still has greater luminous efficiency, which  the team hopes will be overtaken in the future by N-polar structures. Problems for N-polar material include high  concentrations of carbon and oxygen impurities, inclusion of zincblende crystal phase material in the target wurtzite crystal structure, and the formation  of hexagonal hillocks on the growth surface. The zincblende inclusions tend to  result in triangular bulges on the surface of N-polar samples. The team has previously found some success  in reducing carbon/oxygen impurity incorporation by mainly optimizing the V/III  precursor supply ratio. The new work mainly focused on reducing zincblende  inclusion and hexagonal hillock formation. The researchers grew N-polar InGaN/GaN  double QW (DQW) samples on 2μm-thick N-polar GaN templates  on misoriented sapphire. One strategy deployed by the team, mainly  aimed at reducing zincblende inclusion, was to increase the quantum barrier (QB) growth temperature from 845°C to 945°C. The QWs were grown at 745°C. The higher QB growth temperature reduced  root-mean-square (RMS) surface roughness to 3.07nm  from 11.9nm in the lower-QB-temperature sample, according to atomic force microscopy (AFM) over a 5μmx5μm  field.  Figure 1. Surface AFM images of N-polar InGaN/GaN DQW samples with 785°C QW, and QBs grown (a) without (Q5) and (b) with (Q6) 1slm hydrogen in the carrier gas. (c) Fitted room-temperature PL spectra. The researchers comment: “The  zincblende-phase inclusions were eliminated due to the increase in the mobility  of surface adatoms at elevated temperature.” Photoluminescence on the samples showed the  effect of reduced hillock formation and zincblende inclusion in the form of increased  emission and a red-shift in wavelength by 6nm. “The red-shift of the emission  wavelength can be attributed to the elimination of zincblende-phase inclusions,  which increases the indium incorporation efficiency of the DQWs,” the  researchers explain. Moves to tackle hillock growth included  using hydrogen rather than nitrogen as the carrier gas during QB growth.  Hydrogen has a high affinity with N-polar surfaces. The team reports: “Owing to  the reduction of the diffusion barrier to adatoms on the sample surface  achieved by higher hydrogen coverage, the hexagonal hillocks were effectively  eliminated, and the surface RMS roughness was further reduced.” However, a complete switch to hydrogen  carrier resulted in triangular step edges on the surface, due to the different  speeds of step edge propagation in different directions. The higher adatom  incorporation with hydrogen carrier gas aggravates this effect. The RMS  roughness with a complete switch to hydrogen was 2.29nm. A sample with a  partial replacement of hydrogen in the nitrogen carrier gas at the rate of 1 standard liter per minute (slm) enabled an RMS reduction to 1.51nm. The addition of hydrogen to the carrier gas  during QB growth resulted in still higher emission peaks and a further red-shift  of around 9nm. The partial hydrogen addition resulted in a somewhat higher peak  than the complete switch to hydrogen. Increasing the QW growth temperature from  745°C to 785°C shifted the PL peaks from  green light with longer than 500nm wavelength to blue at 436nm and 441nm with  QBs grown at high temperature without and with 1slm hydrogen in the carrier gas, respectively (Figure 1). The  corresponding surface morphologies were 2.98 and 1.83nm RMS. “This demonstrates  that the surface morphology of N-polar DQWs has a minor dependence on the QW  growth temperature in the temperature range of our experiment,” the team  comments. The researchers also fabricated LEDs from  the 436/441nm PL emitting materials (Figure 2). The longer-wavelength material was grown with hydrogen in the  carriers gas during QB growth, giving a  device labeled LED-A. The reference LED-B was grown without hydrogen in the QB  carrier. The LED-A demonstrated much lower series resistance, giving higher current for a given potential bias. The team comments: “Compared with LED-B,  LED-A exhibits significantly improved EL intensity and a longer emission  wavelength, which is consistent with the PL measurement results for DQWs before  and after optimization.” 