Smartphone shipments fall 7.3% year-on-year in Q2; Samsung on 21.5% marketshare and Apple at 16.3% Global smartphone shipments fell by 7.3%  year-on-year from 314 million units in second-quarter 2021 to 291 million  units in second-quarter 2022 (the  fourth consecutive quarter of year-on-year  decline by smartphone volumes), according  to market research firm Strategy Analytics. “COVID disruption and geopolitical issues adversely impacted  smartphone market in the second quarter,” notes senior director Linda Sui. “Meanwhile, unfavorable economic  conditions continued to weaken consumers’ demand on smartphones and other  non-essential products.”  Picture:   Global  smartphone shipments and market share by vendor, Q2/2022. Samsung’s smartphone shipments grew by 9.5% year-on-year to 62.5 million in Q2/2022, topping the  global market with a 21.5% share. “It is the vendor’s highest second-quarter  performance by market share since 2020,” notes director Woody Oh. “Demand continued to remain  strong for the newly launched flagship Galaxy S22 series, especially the higher-priced S22 Ultra model.” Apple’s iPhone shipments rose 3.3% year-on-year to 47.5 million  (16.3% marketshare). “This is the highest second-quarter market share for Apple  over the past ten years, at  the expense of leading Chinese brands who are hampered by the sluggish  performance in both home and overseas market,” says Oh. “Apple had a good  quarter, led by the iPhone 13  series, which continued to ramp up volumes in US, China and other key markets,”  he adds. Chinese firms Xiaomi, OPPO  (including OnePlus) and vivo remained among the top five smartphone  makers. 
  Xiaomi shipped 39.5 million  smartphones and took third place with 13.6% marketshare in Q2/2022, down from  17% a year ago. “Xiaomi suffered from the geopolitical uncertainties in  Europe,” notes senior analyst  Yiwen Wu. “China and India market also delivered a mixed bag for the Chinese  brand.” OPPO (OnePlus) held fourth spot and captured 9.5% marketshare.  Vivo stayed fifth, with 8.6%. “OPPO (OnePlus) and Vivo both lost ground in most  markets, as 5G competition from Honor and other smartphone competitors  intensified sharply in China and other markets,” says Wu. “Global competition among other major smartphone brands, beyond  the top five, was fierce  during Q2/2022,” comments executive director  Neil Mawston. “Transsion, Honor, Lenovo-Motorola and Huawei all outperformed  the overall market but delivered different patterns. Transsion regained the  leading position from Samsung in Africa region this quarter. Honor held firmly  in China, being the largest vendor for the first time ever, and continued to  ramp up in overseas markets. Lenovo-Motorola stabilized the performance in  America region and made progress in Europe and Asia Pacific. Realme stayed in the top-ten list but delivered a  mixed performance and lost ground in China, Latin America, Central Eastern Europe and Africa Middle East region,” he adds. “Among top-ten brands, there are  eight Chinese brands. However, all these Chinese brands combined posted -13%  annual decline, underperforming total market and the top two players.” Strategy Analytics forecasts that global smartphone  shipments will contract by 7-8% year-on-year  in full-year 2022. “Geopolitical issues, economy downturn, price  inflation, exchange-rate volatility, and COVID disruption will continue to  weigh on the smartphone market during the second half of 2022,” says Sui. “All  these headwinds would continue through the first half of next year, before the  situation eases in the second half of 2023,” she adds. “Samsung and Apple would  continue to outperform and remain top two places. Chinese brands need to  stabilize the performance in China market and explore new growth engine to  terminate the falling track.” 