Lateral polarization GaN HEMTs Researchers based in China and Saudi Arabia  propose lateral modulation of the charge polarization of III-nitride material  as a more effective route to electrically isolate high-electron-mobility  transistors, compared with mesa etching or ion implantation [Yijun Dai et al, Appl. Phys. Lett., v121, p012104, 2022]. Current leakage occurs in mesa etched  structures through surface damage. Ion implantation needs high-temperature  annealing to repair crystal structures, which can result in poor thermal  stability and introduction of deep-level defects. “Structures of polarization-isolated  high-electron-mobility transistors (PI-HEMTs) exhibit significantly reduced  isolation leakage currents by up to nearly two orders of magnitude at 50V  voltage bias compared to the  state-of-the-art results,” the team from Ningbo Institute of Materials  Technology and Engineering and University of Chinese Academy of Sciences,  China, and King Abdullah University of Science  and Technology (KAUST), Saudi Arabia, comment. The PI-HEMTs used a lateral polarity  structure (LPS) with N-polar material providing isolation between III-polar  HEMT regions (Figure 1). The two-dimensional  electron gas (2DEG) at the aluminium gallium nitride (AlGaN) barrier/gallium nitride (GaN) channel interface usual in III-polar structures is  expected in the N-polar isolation regions to be depleted owing to the Fermi level being below the conduction band.  Figure  1: (a) Cross-sectional PI-HEMT scheme. Red dashed line represents 2DEG. (b)  Band diagrams. (c) Three-dimensional mapping of conduction band showing barrier  height between III- and N-polar GaN of PI-HEMT structure with 1μm N-polar width (i.e.  isolation spacing). (d) Conduction band diagram extracted from dashed line A-B in (c). “Due to inversion of the spontaneous  polarization direction, the polarization-induced electric field in the  III-polar structure is opposite to that of the N-polar structure,” the  researchers explain. The N-polar material therefore can be used  to electrically isolate the III-polar 2DEG. The team estimates the induced barrier height at 3.5eV, “significantly larger than the conduction-band  offset between AlN and GaN”. The team sees their work as potentially  leading to GaN power electronic arrays and monolithic  microwave integrated circuits (MMIC) with high  breakdown voltage and high-density chip  integration. Enhanced isolation will enable GaN technology to leverage the full  benefit of its high breakdown voltage, fast  switching speed, and continued operation at  high temperature (HT). Other devices that could benefit from LPS  include super-junctions, Schottky barrier diodes  (SBDs), MESFETs, and photodetectors. 