Finwave raises $12.2m in Series A round to bring 3DGaN to volume production Finwave Semiconductor Inc  of Waltham, MA, USA has raised $12.2m in a Series A round of funding  led by Fine Structure Ventures with additional participation from Citta Capital,  Soitec, Safar Partners and Alumni Ventures. This follows an award of $4.3m  in federal funding from the US Department of Energy Advanced Research  Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA-E) SCALEUP (Seeding Critical Advances for  Leading Energy technologies with Untapped Potential) grant, to help bring  the company’s three-dimensional gallium nitride (3DGaN) technology to volume  production. The funds will be used to expand the company’s team, product development  activities and lab facilities. Founded in 2012 by researchers at Massachusetts Institute of  Technology (MIT) as Cambridge Electronics before being rebranded this June as  Finwave Semiconductor (with offices in San Diego, CA and the Bay Area), the  firm aims to revolutionize 5G communications with its 3DGaN technology, which  features a 3D fin transistor (GaN FinFET) structure. “3DGaN FinFET technology is a result of over 10 years of  research and development, initially developed at MIT and recognized with the  coveted 2012 IEEE Electron Device Society George Smith Award,” notes Finwave’s  CEO & co-founder Dr Bin Lu. “The enormous potential of GaN FinFETs  has since been demonstrated by a growing number of researchers around the world,”  he adds. “The company combines best-in-class power amplification  efficiency with high-volume manufacturing to overcome the performance and cost  limitations that have together stymied widespread adoption of mmWave,” comments  said Jennifer Uhrig, senior managing director at Fine Structure  Ventures, a venture capital fund affiliated with FMR LLC, the parent company  of Fidelity Investments. Millimeter-wave (mmWave) is critical to the future of all wireless  technology, but the realization of its potential faces severe roadblocks, says Finwave.  Weak uplink, high deployment costs, low 5G radio efficiency and  soaring operating costs are all combining to thwart the promise of mmWave.  Currently, 5G networks are being held back from realizing their true potential  due to a critical missing component: high-performance mmWave power amplifier  technology, the firm adds. High-performance GaN-on-silicon (GaN-on-Si) could make 5G  millimeter-wave more practical. At mmWave frequencies, GaN-on-Si amplifiers  excel versus alternative solutions such as radio-frequency silicon-on-insulator  (RFSOI) MOSFETs, gallium arsenide (GaAs) pseudomorphic high-electron-mobility transistors (pHEMTs) or silicon germanium (SiGe) devices,  says Finwave. The firm claims that its 3DGaN technology significantly improves  linearity, output power and efficiency in 5G mmWave systems – while  greatly reducing costs for carriers. In 2020, Finwave demonstrated the first GaN insulating-gate  FinFETs fabricated with 8” silicon CMOS tools. By leveraging high-volume 8” silicon CMOS fabs for  producing 3DGaN chips, the firm’s devices benefit from both the cost model  and scalability of silicon technology. “Finwave was founded with the mission to scale the technology from  lab to high-volume products that benefit society, and 5G presents the perfect  market opportunity for the scale, performance gains and cost advantages this  technology brings,” says Bin Lu. “Having solved numerous manufacturing  challenges and successfully created a fabrication process using standard 8” Si  CMOS tools, Finwave is leading the way in commercializing the 3DGaN technology  for 5G,” he adds. “After spending 30 years working in silicon-on-insulator  technology and being an early pioneer in getting this technology into every cell  phone on the planet, the opportunities for Finwave’s 3DGaN GaN-on-silicon  technology are enormous,” comments Finwave’s chief strategy officer &  executive chairman Dr Jim Cable. “I personally understand the  challenges of ramping up a new technology into high-volume markets, and we are  very focused on all aspects of enabling this. Closing this Series A round  is a major step forward for us.” Beyond 5G, Finwave aims to  also bring its technology to artificial intelligence (AI), cloud computing, and electric vehicles (EVs) and autonomous vehicles (AVs). 