North East Advanced Material Electronics cluster launched in UK The North East Advanced Material  Electronics (NEAME) cluster group has been formal launched, with a mission to  highlight and promote the region as a centre of excellence for advanced  compound semiconductor technology design and manufacture. NEAME is a cluster led by CEOs and other  senior decision makers in the North East electronics industry, with  the intention of providing a central voice both to raise the profile of the  region and to help its members to address their main challenges and  opportunities profitably. The sector makes a significant  contribution to the regional economy and is projected to contribute £447m gross  value-added by 2026, with the potential to create and support around 4500  jobs. International factors mean that all  companies in the sector face significant supply chain challenges. Led by chief executives  and other senior decision makers, NEAME will act as a single voice to  raise the profile of the region’s competencies and address the main challenges  and opportunities for advanced material electronics. Since electronic components based on  compound semiconductor materials (like gallium nitride) can outperform  silicon devices in speed, size and energy efficiency, they can power  transformational applications including electric and autonomous vehicles,  satellite and 5G/6G communications, energy decarbonization, IoT (Internet of Things)  sensors and computer imaging technologies, it is noted.  Picture:   (Back row L-R): TechWorks’  CEO Alan Banks; PragmatIC’s Ken Williamson; Filtronic’s Richard Gibbs; Viper-RF’s  Jim Mayock; Evince’s Gareth Taylor; Axenic’s Steve Clements; Isocom’s Thomas  Bayat and (front row L-R): Business Durham’s Elaine Scott, NMI director Jillian  Hughes; and MP Paul Howell. “NEAME is an opportunity to showcase this  region’s strength within advanced material electronics,” says Richard Gibbs,  CEO of Filtronic. “The North East of England is a powerhouse  for innovation and quality in advanced material electronics,” reckons Ken  Williamson, chief operating officer of Pragmatic. “At Pragmatic we have  demonstrated our commitment with our investment in PragmatIC Park; we believe  this represents the future of UK semiconductor manufacturing” High-tech companies within a 25-mile  radius of Sedgefield include Kromek — the world’s largest cadmium zinc telluride  (CZT) facility — at NETPark, where it is developing and manufacturing  radiation detection devices. Filtronic (which, like Kromek, is a recent  winner of a UK Queens Award for Enterprise – International Trade) designs  and manufactures high-frequency electronic modules that connect  telecommunications systems in space and for terrestrial 5G mobile networks. In addition, after last year raising $90m  in its Series C funding round, PragmatIC is the first large-scale  semiconductor manufacturing facility to be announced in the UK for several  decades and will house the first 300mm fab in the country. Evince Technology is  developing an innovative process to manufacture electronic devices on synthetic diamond  substrates. “The North East continues to pioneer and  develop new technologies that can have a huge impact on a global scale,” stated  Paul Howell, MP for Sedgefield, who officially launched NEAME. “The formation  of the NEAME highlights the strength of the region’s growing advanced material electronics  sector and presents an opportunity to develop the skills and the jobs of the  future, establishing the North East as a global hub for this technology,”  he added. “NMI are delighted to be continuing our  support of the UK semiconductor industry by hosting the announcement of the NEAME  during our annual conference,” commented Jillian Hughes, director of the National Microelectronics Institute (the industry  trade body for electronic systems in the UK & Ireland), who hosted  the launch. “During the last 25 years we have supported the semiconductor  design, manufacturing and supplier communities adding value through  collaboration, networking and knowledge sharing.” 