Transphorm’s SuperGaN Gen IV technology powering Phihong’s new 65W 2C1A USB PD adapter Transphorm  Inc of Goleta, near Santa Barbara, CA, USA — which designs and  manufactures JEDEC- and AEC-Q101-qualified gallium nitride (GaN)  field-effect transistors (FETs) for high-voltage power conversion — says that its GaN technology is powering the  new 65W 2C1A USB PD adapter by Phihong, a global supplier of  power products and electric vehicle (EV) charging stations. The  adapters leverage Transphorm’s SuperGaN Gen IV technology, a GaN FET  platform that is said to offer benefits ranging from easy system design-in with  lower system component count to higher performance with world-class  reliability. Capable of charging three devices simultaneously, Phihong’s 65W  adapter includes two USB-C ports and one USB-A port (2C1A) in a small form factor  (51mm x 55.3mm x 29mm). The charger leverages a single 650V  SuperGaN device, the TP65H300G4LSG, for an approximate 17% reduction in power  loss over a silicon solution using a quasi-resonant flyback (QRF) topology. The  adapter also offers USB PD and PPS functionality up to 65W. The TP65H300G4LSG is a 240mΩ,  JEDEC-qualified PQFN88 surface-mount device with a ±18V gate  safety margin. The FET is optimal for lower-power applications at 150W or  below built on QRF, active-clamp flyback (ACF) or LLC resonant topologies. Transphorm’s TP65H300G4LSG offers silicon-like threshold levels  and high gate breakdown voltage (±18V maximum). It can pair with  off-the-shelf controllers (including those with integrated drivers) without the  need for a negative-bias voltage. This simplifies the power system’s  design; eliminates the need for additional peripheral circuitry (thereby  reducing component count), and increases overall system reliability — all key  reasons behind Phihong’s decision to use the Transphorm FET. Facts and Factors recently released a report projecting that the  global AC-to-DC adapter market will rise at a compound annual growth rate  (CAGR) of 12.7% to $1.854m by 2026. Transphorm also reported in May that its  240mΩ device is gaining traction, with it  securing pre-production orders from ODMs for large Asia mobile phone (65W)  and leading WW e-retailer (140W) projects. Additionally, the firm’s increase in  market share is being driven by another laptop adapter design-win from a  tier-1 Fortune 100 company, which includes an initial purchase order of  50,000 units of the SuperGaN 240mΩ  FETs. These FETs provide higher efficiency for 65W fast-charging adapter  applications versus competing e-mode GaN FETs that require a larger 150mΩ device for similar applications (so the  SuperGaN FETs allow customers to do more with less). “Our SuperGaN platform is built from the ground up with four key  tenets in mind: reliability, designability, drivability and reproducibility.  Our 240mΩ device is no exception,” says  Kenny Yim, Transphorm’s VP of Asia Pacific sales. “We enable adapter  manufacturers to design small, light and cool-running products that can offer  the latest in advanced USB charging features. It is that type of  innovation that is driving GaN adoption in the global adapter market,  positioning us to strengthen our foothold in the market with a high-performing  solution backed by high-volume production capabilities,” he adds. The TP65H300G4LSG is currently available through distributors  Digi-Key and Mouser. 