Micross to distribute EPC Space’s rad-hard GaN power devices for space, aerospace and high-rel applications EPC Space LLC of Haverhill, MA, USA says that Micross Components Inc  of Orlando, FL, USA (a global provider of bare die and a mission-critical  microelectronic components and services for high-reliability aerospace  & defense, space, medical and industrial  applications) has agreed to become an authorized distributor for its  line of packaged radiation-hardened gallium nitride  on silicon (GaN-on-Si) transistors and ICs, which are designed and qualified  for satellite and other high-reliability applications. Spanning a range of 40–300V, EPC Space  offers a family of rad-hard enhancement-mode power transistors  tht are said to demonstrate significant performance advantages over competing  silicon-based rad-hard power MOSFETs.  The firm’s technology produces GaN devices that are smaller, lighter and better  performing, meaning that the devices have many times superior switching  performance compared with silicon solutions. To complement the EPC Space  discrete products, Micross will also distribute EPC Space’s family of rad-hard enhancement-mode GaN drivers and  power stages. These rad-hard GaN drivers are optimized to drive the rad-hard  GaN transistors in critical space-borne systems and applications. The rad-hard  power stages integrate a high-speed  gate drive circuit with power  switches to provide a complete monolithic power stage  in a tiny footprint for a smaller, lighter solution. The agreement combines the performance and reliability of EPC Space’s rad-hard GaN technology with  Micross’ portfolio of high-reliability product lines  along with their extensive relationship-driven network within the  high-reliability community. Critical space-borne applications that benefit from the  performance improvements that EPC Space  devices offer include power supplies  for satellites and mission equipment, light detection and ranging (LiDAR) for  robotics, autonomous navigation and  rendezvous docking, motor drives for robotics and instrumentation,  and ion thrusters for satellite  orientation and positioning as well as interplanetary propulsion of low-mass  robotic vehicles. “The addition of EPC Space’s  rad-hard gallium nitride-based power management products complements Micross’  expansive hi-rel product solutions portfolio and global expertise in providing  mission-critical components and services for hi-reliability applications,” says  Mark Zack, Micross Components’ senior VP  of Die & Wafer Services. “We are excited to bring our leading-edge high performance  rad-hard GaN technology together with the expertise of Micross to reach wider  and deeper into the space marketplace where these customers’ power applications  require ‘state-of-the-art’ performance along with greater-power-density  solutions,” says EPC Space’s CEO Bel  Lazar. 