SkyWater to build $1.8bn fab in partnership with State of Indiana and Purdue University SkyWater Technology of Bloomington, MN, USA – a Department of Defense  (DoD)-accredited technology foundry that manufactures integrated circuits  for markets including aerospace & defense, automotive, biomedical, cloud  & computing, consumer, industrial, and the Internet of Things  (IoT) – plans to build a  $1.8bn R&D and production facility in Indiana through a public–private  partnership with the State and Purdue University to pursue funding from the CHIPS  (Creating Helpful Incentives to Produce Semiconductors) for America Act. To be  located on the Purdue campus in the Discovery Park District, the Indiana facility will provide access to  SkyWater’s development services, volume production and heterogeneous  integration solutions that the firm currently offers in its Minnesota and Florida  facilities. The ability  to make this large an investment will depend on the result of SkyWater, Purdue  University and the State of Indiana working together to obtain federal  incentives in the form of grants as defined in the CHIPS Act currently making its way through the  US Congress. Subsequently, SkyWater will continue implementing its  co-investment business model through engagements with customers, suppliers and  other agencies to ensure that those resources are applied to advanced  capabilities, new tools and scaled production. “For months,  state leaders including Governor Holcomb, Secretary Chambers, President Daniels  and private enterprise have partnered to create a semiconductor corridor here  in the Heartland,” says US Senator  Todd Young of Indiana. “In Washington, we are on the verge of passing a major  investment in next-generation technologies that is vital for the success of  this and future projects, and that will ensure Indiana remains at the center of  our high-tech national security economy,” he adds. “This  endeavor to bolster our chip fabrication facilities will rely on funding from  the CHIPS Act. Federal investment will enable  SkyWater to more quickly expand our efforts to address the need for strategic  reshoring of semiconductor manufacturing,” says SkyWater’s president & CEO  Thomas Sonderman. “Through our alliance with the Indiana Economic Development Corporation and Purdue  Research Foundation, we have a unique opportunity to increase domestic production,  shore up our supply chains and lay  the groundwork for manufacturing technologies that will support growing demand  for microelectronics.” The new  SkyWater facility should accelerate domestic semiconductor capabilities, ensure  IP security and support a more resilient and comprehensive supply chain, providing competitive advantages  for its US government and commercial customers. By co-locating the fab at  Purdue, SkyWater and its customers will benefit from close collaboration with  the university and its pipeline of talent, it is expected. “SkyWater’s  investment in a new state-of-the-art semiconductor manufacturing facility at  Purdue’s Discovery Park District  represents a major step forward and highlights the importance of public-private  partnerships in fostering a robust and thriving domestic microelectronics  industry,” comments Dr Devanand  Shenoy, principal director of microelectronics, Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and  Engineering/Critical Technologies. “Indiana’s  investments in the economy of the future, infrastructure and talent development  are cultivating an environment that enables innovators such as SkyWater to  choose Indiana,” believes Governor Holcomb. “Our success and our mission to  support industries of the future would not be possible without the incredible  partnerships with our globally ranked universities, like Purdue University,  helping us attract and retain quality, innovative talent.” The SkyWater  facility in Indiana is aimed at enabling mass customization of highly  innovative solutions, ensuring the firm plays a significant and pivotal role  in: “Today’s  announcement marks a dramatic advance toward multiple strategic goals of  Purdue’s last decade: enriched academic and career opportunities for our  students; new research possibilities for our faculty; a transformed, more  attractive environment on and adjacent to our campus; and the latest demonstration  that Purdue and Greater Lafayette  are now the hot new tech hub  of a growing, diversifying Indiana economy,” says Purdue University president  Mitch Daniels. “Even for the place that specializes in them, this constitutes a  genuine giant leap.” A diverse  set of factors was considered when selecting West Lafayette, Indiana as the fab site, including but not limited  to, the state’s highly skilled manufacturing workforce, proximity to university  engineering programs and semiconductor customers, the Scalable Asymmetric  Lifecycle Engagement (SCALE) program managed by Purdue and sponsored by NSWC  Crane, Indiana’s strong domestic and international relations, and the quality  of life that Indiana residents enjoy. 