Buffers for GaN power on AlN substrate Researchers based in Belgium and Germany  report on gallium nitride (GaN) buffer structures  on 200mm polycrystalline aluminium nitride  (poly-AlN) substrates aimed at >1200V hard breakdown power applications such as electrical vehicles [Anurag Vohra  et al, Appl. Phys. Lett., v120, p261902, 2022]. One advantage of using poly-AlN as a substrate  is that the coefficient of thermal expansion is much closer to that of the  GaN/AlGaN used in buffers than for other substrates, such as silicon Si (111). According to the team from Belgium’s Imec vzw, Germany’s Aixtron SE, and CMST imec and Ghent University in Belgium, this paves the way to thicker  buffer structures on large-diameter substrates, while maintaining and enabling  higher-voltage operation. The researchers used Imec’s proprietary  reversed stepped superlattice (RSSL) buffer scheme. They comment: “The RSSL  buffer scheme features a much larger flexibility in stress engineering and,  hence, becomes a more promising candidate for the growth of thick buffer  structures on the engineered substrates of large size, which show different mechanical  behaviors than regular silicon substrates.” The researchers used 200mm engineered  poly-AlN “Qromis Substrate Technology” (QST) substrates supplied by Qromis Inc. The epitaxial growth was performed in an Aixtron G5+ C planetary reactor. The growth substrates included a Si (111) top layer bonded to the QST poly-AlN by silicon (di)oxide (SiO). The RSSL buffer stacks (Figure 1) were  grown with (Ex C-doped) and without intentional carbon doping. Of course, in  metal-organic chemical vapor deposition  (MOCVD) some intrinsic C-doping is almost unavoidable. One can affect this  intrinsic C incorporation by tuning of the growth temperature V/III (N/AlGa)  ratio, for example.  Figure  1: High-electron-mobility transistor (HEMT) stacks based on intrinsic (stack A and stack B) and extrinsic  (stack C) C-doping. Buffer thicknesses of stack A and stack B varied from  5.3-7.4μm to 4.8-6.1μm, respectively. Stack C had a thickness  of ~6.8μm. The aim of the work was to maximize the  breakdown voltage of the buffer stack through optimizing the Al contents, C-doping and buffer thickness. Higher Al content should increase the critical field for breakdown. Thicker  buffers should have a lower field at the AlN/Si nucleation interface for a  given potential. The layers were designed to manage the stress and thus avoid  excessive wafer bowing. The researchers were unusually relaxed  about a high threading dislocation density emanating from the AlN/Si nucleation  interface: “Defect control has not been focus of this study as it is known on the  contrary that large density of these defects might actually help to reduce the  dispersion for intentionally C-doped buffers.” Low dispersion is a key need of dynamic  power management where the device performance needs to be almost the same as in  DC operation when switched on and off, and for recovery from high voltage stress. 