SMART Photonics and TU/e enter into long-term strategic partnership Eindhoven-based independent pure-play  indium phosphide (InP) photonic integrated circuit (PIC) foundry  SMART Photonics and Technical University of Eindhoven (TU/e) in  The Netherlands have signed a long-term strategic partnership  agreement that aims to further strengthen the development of InP photonic  integration technology and provide a smooth path of new technologies to end customers. Ten years ago TU/e was one of the founding partners of SMART  Photonics, which has developed rapidly since. Last year it featured in Europe’s  top-50 most promising scale-ups. TU/e and SMART Photonics  have always worked closely together to their mutual benefit. With this collaboration now formalized in the agreement, both  parties commit to a long-term strategic partnership. The joint efforts will  reinforce the continuous R&D of InP photonic integration and are expected  to provide a path to industrialization. This aims to provide the entire  photonic ecosystem with industrial PIC production capacity to address a rapidly  growing market. The cooperation will involve activities such as developing new  building blocks for SMART Photonics’  already comprehensive process design kit  (PDK), developing future, more sustainable PIC production processes, and other  next-generation technologies such as hybrid integration of different photonic  and electronic platforms. In addition, SMART Photonics will support TU/e in  activities aimed at educating ambitious and highly qualified engineers for the  benefit of the entire PhotonDelta ecosystem. “Eindhoven University of Technology is world leading in photonics  research and technology, and co-founder of the Photon Delta ecosystem,” notes TU/e’s rector Frank Baaijens. “We  are committed to further solidify the strong position of The Netherlands and its photonics ecosystem  in which SMART Photonics, as an independent pure-play foundry, plays a system  critical function. The objective is to enhance the position of Europe as  powerhouse in integrated photonics,” he adds. “This agreement strengthens our collaboration with TU/e, one of  the most powerful technology hubs in the world,” comments SMART Photonics’  chief technology officer Luc  Augustin. “It provides us access to new research, ideas and inventions that we  will be able to offer to our customers as part of our strong technology  offering. At the same time, it offers TU/e the ability to perform their  research on the basis of the latest industrially robust and stable processes,”  he adds. “Our combined efforts will strongly contribute to the further  industrialization of PIC technology and our technology leadership, benefiting  the full photonic ecosystem.” See  related items: PhotonDelta gains €1.1bn funding, including €470m from  Netherlands’ National Growth Fund EU-funded project INSPIRE combining SiN and InP PICs with  wafer-scale micro-transfer printing SMART Photonics gains  €13m loan from Rabobank PhotonDelta, TNO, Eindhoven and Twente collaborating on  Photonic Integration Technology Center 