LPE and A*STAR’s IME to develop high-quality 200mm SiC and specialty epitaxy processes LPE SpA of Milan,  Italy, which designs and makes epitaxial reactors for power electronics  applications, and the  Institute of Microelectronics (IME) at the Agency for Science, Technology and  Research (A*STAR) have announced a research collaboration to develop  high-quality 200mm silicon carbide  (SiC) and specialty epitaxy processes including enhanced growth rates with  improved uniformity. This will be done through experimental activities  supported by simulation studies. The parties will leverage LPE’s knowledge  in SiC chemical vapor deposition  (CVD) reactor technology and SiC epitaxial growth, plus IME’s research  capabilities and facilities, 200mm SiC pilot process integration line, and material characterization equipment.  The aim is to create 200mm epitaxy processes with enhanced growth rate and uniformities, and reduced killer defect densities. The 200mm SiC pilot line is being  established by A*STAR’s IME to validate 200mm manufacturing processes and tools  on a pilot scale before  transitioning to 200mm high-volume manufacturing. This collaboration will be  part of IME’s plans for establishing a 200mm SiC innovation program. SiC epitaxy is one of the essential  process steps for 200mm device processing of the upcoming 200mm SiC pilot line. The manufacturing industry is  projected to move towards using a unique single-wafer chamber SiC epitaxy tool.  LPE, which contributes its tools into the innovation program, is geared towards  quicker industrial adoption. Picture:   LPE’s PE1O8 SiC epitaxy reactor (photo courtesy of LPE). For this collaboration, both parties will  work on the development of high-quality 200mm SiC and specialty epitaxy  processes, including the following areas: The collaboration will result in  “extraordinary market expansion of 200mm SiC-based devices, believes LPE’s CEO Franco  Preti. “As SiC power modules become pervasive, a more efficient use of  electrical power will make a sustainable growth possible,” he adds. “The success of this collaboration will  benefit the SiC manufacturing ecosystem and accelerate the adoption of  high-performance SiC power modules across various applications such as  electric vehicles and charging points,” says IME’s executive director  Terence Gan. 