MRSI and Lumentum collaborate on developing automotive LiDAR solutions MRSI Systems (Mycronic Group) of North Billerica, MA, USA (which makes fully automated, high-precision,  high-speed eutectic and epoxy die bonding systems)  has announced a new collaboration with photonics chip and module designer and manufacturer  Lumentum Operations LLC to develop light detection and ranging  (LiDAR) solutions for the automotive industry. With LiDAR technology becoming standard  equipment in mid-range and high-end vehicles, it is forecasted that, in the  next five years, the demand for automotive LiDAR in advanced  driver assistance systems (ADAS) will grow at a compound annual growth rate  (CAGR) of 94%. Compared to optical transceivers, automotive LiDAR needs to pass  more stringent reliability verification, in which both the reliability of the  photonic chips and their assembly technologies are critical. Assembling  photonic chips with high reliability and zero defects in large-scale  production is one of the great challenges facing the emerging automotive LiDAR  industry, notes MRSI. Based on its expertise in providing reliable  diode laser solutions for communication and consumer applications,  Lumentum has developed a series of diode laser products that meet the  quality, scope and reliability requirements of the automotive industry. The  firm provides 1550nm narrow-linewidth distributed Bragg reflector (DBR)  diode lasers for frequency-modulated continuous wave (FMCW) coherent  LiDAR, 905nm and 940nm VCSEL arrays with corresponding power for long-distance  LiDAR and in-cabin monitoring. As a supplier of fully automated high-accuracy  die bonders providing high-precision, high-flexibility, high-reliability  and high-speed fully automatic chip assembly for the optoelectronic and  microelectronic industries, for the automotive LiDAR industry MRSI provides  high-reliability and fully automated assembling solutions for various  die bonding processes. To be highlighted at the 2022  Compound Semiconductor Advanced Technology & Application  conference in Suzhou, China (3-4 August), MRSI’s collaboration with  Lumentum will provide high-reliability photonic chip assembly and services for  the automotive LiDAR industry. On behalf of both companies, MRSI’s  Dr Limin Zhou is delivering the presentation ‘Discussion on  Photonic Chips and Assembling Technologies in Automotive LIDAR’, focusing  on the companies’ collaborative work, including key assembly requirements and  technologies, best mass-production solutions for high-reliability and  zero defects, and experimental results. “Reliability is critical for automotive LiDAR  applications and both the laser chip and the module assembly technology are  essential to passing the strict reliability requirements for vehicles,” says  Lu Yong, senior product line manager at Lumentum. “Our combined  efforts will better support customers with a complete solution that includes  high-reliability laser chip and assembly products,” he adds. “MRSI Systems, Mycronic Group will have more  opportunities to work with the global leading photonics company to develop  high-reliability chip assembly solutions for the fast-growing industry,”  says Dr Yi Qian, Mycronic Group’s VP & general manager  for MRSI Systems. “The end-to-end solutions from chip to module assembly  provided by our collaboration will shorten time-to-market and play a very  important role in enabling mass production of automotive LiDAR solutions.” 