GaN-on-Si device maker Innoscience opens Korean sales and design center Innoscience Technology of Suzhou, China has  opened a new office in Gwangmyeong, near Seoul, South Korea, to provide  technical and marketing services to the country’s consumer and automotive  market. Innoscience Korea will also design new solutions tailored to the  Korean market’s needs and based on InnoGaN technology. Founded in December 2015 with main investment from CMBI, ARM, SK  and CATL, Innoscience first established a mass-production 8-inch wafer line for  gallium nitride-on-silicon (GaN-on-Si) devices in Zhuhai National Hi-Tech  District in November 2017, then inaugurated a new facility in Suzhou in  September 2020. With 1400+ staff and over 300 R&D specialists, the firm now  claims to be the largest integrated device manufacturer (IDM) fully focused on  GaN technology, with two wafer fabs including what is claimed to be the world’s  largest dedicated 8-inch GaN-on-Si site. Innoscience is now delivering GaN  power devices that can be used in applications including cloud computing,  electric vehicles (EV) and automotive, portable devices, mobile phones,  chargers and adapters. VP & general manager of Innoscience Korea is Ke Hong,  responsible for business development in Korea. Hong has 27 years’ experience in  the power semiconductor industry, holding key roles at other international  and Korean companies. “As we expand Innoscience’s global presence, it is vital to have a  direct presence in Korea, which is a very strategic market for Innoscience,”  says Innoscience’s CEO Jay Son. The team in Korea is already formed by nine engineers and is  quickly expanding with the addition of designers, sales and product marketing  experts. “Innoscience has shaken up the GaN market by making products  readily available at competitive prices,” comments Hong. “Innoscience is  perfectly positioned to provide GaN power devices in mass volume, which is what  we think the Korean market was waiting for,” he adds. “Korea is a significant  opportunity for Innoscience. We are working hard to support all our customers  here and to showcase the benefit of using InnoGaN in relevant applications.” 