II-VI and Artilux demo longer-range, higher-resolution 3D camera operating at 1380nm Engineered materials and optoelectronic component  maker II-VI Inc of Saxonburg, PA, USA and Artilux of Hsinchu,  Taiwan, which specializes in germanium silicon (GeSi) photonics and CMOS  short-wavelength infrared (SWIR) sensing technology, have jointly demonstrated  a next-generation 3D camera with much longer range and higher image resolution. Investments in the metaverse infrastructure are accelerating and  driving the demand for sensors that enable more realistic and immersive virtual  experiences, says the firms. II-VI and Artilux combined their proprietary  technologies in indium phosphide (InP) lasers and GeSi sensor arrays,  respectively, to demonstrate a miniature 3D camera that operates in the  short-wavelength infrared at 1380nm, resulting in significantly higher  performance than existing cameras operating at 940nm, it is reckoned. “The longer infrared wavelength provides better contrasts and  reveals material details that are otherwise not visible with shorter-wavelength  illumination, especially in outdoor environments,” says Dr Julie Sheridan Eng,  senior VP, Optoelectronic Devices & Modules business unit, II-VI.  “By designing a camera that operates at 1380nm instead of 940nm, we can  illuminate the scene with greater brightness and still remain well within the  margins of eye-safety requirements. In addition, the atmosphere absorbs more  sunlight at 1380nm than at 940nm, which reduces background light interference,  greatly improving the signal-to-noise ratio and enabling cameras with longer  range and better image resolution,” she adds. II-VI provided the highly integrated SWIR illumination module  comprising InP edge-emitting lasers that deliver up to 2W of output power and  optical diffusers, in surface-mount technology (SMT) packages for low-cost and  high-quality assembly. Artilux’s camera features a high-bandwidth and  high-quantum-efficiency GeSi SWIR sensor array based on a scalable CMOS  technology platform. Combined, the products enable a broad range of  depth-sensing applications in consumer and automotive markets. “The miniature SWIR 3D camera can be seamlessly integrated into  next-generation consumer devices, many of which are under development for  augmented-, mixed- and virtual-reality applications,” says Artilux co-founder  & chief technology officer Dr Neil Na. “II-VI and Artilux  demonstrated a key capability that will enable the metaverse to become a  popular venue for entertainment, work and play,” he adds. “The SWIR camera  demonstration provides a glimpse of the future of 3D sensing in the  metaverse, with displays that can identify, delineate, classify and render  image content, or with avatars that can experience real-time eye contact  and facial expressions.” 