Soitec boosting SmartSiC wafer manufacturing yield using KLA Surfscan SP A2 unpatterned inspection system Engineered substrate manufacturer Soitec of  Bernin, near Grenoble, France  has selected process control and  inspection systems provider KLA Corp of  Milpitas, CA, USA to enable high-yield manufacturing of silicon carbide (SiC) devices for the automotive  industry. Soitec leverages its patented SmartSiC technology to produce SiC  substrates, which aim to improve the performance of power electronics devices and boost the energy efficiency of electric vehicles (EVs). Based on its track record of using KLA’s inspectors for its  silicon-on-insulator (SOI) wafers, Soitec has extended its partnership with KLA  and selected the Surfscan SP A2  unpatterned inspection system for its SmartSiC wafers. SmartSiC wafers provide what is claimed to be unique crystal  quality, while KLA’s Surfscan SP A2  leverages deep-ultraviolet (DUV) optics and advanced algorithms to support  substrate quality control. This  partnership should enable SiC substrate production at more sophisticated  levels, helping to bring high-quality SiC in high volume to the automotive  market. In March, Soitec announced the construction of a new fab, Bernin 4, dedicated primarily to the  manufacturing of SmartSiC wafers in 150mm and 200mm diameters. The new fab is  expected to be operational by second-half 2023. “Coupling our unique SmartSiC engineered substrates with KLA’s  inspection and metrology systems will help us to assure supreme quality levels  in the manufacturing of substrates and thus drive customer yield downstream,”  says Soitec’s chief technology officer  Christophe Maleville. “With KLA, we have demonstrated the great potential of  their inspection system for our all-important SOI technology. We now apply it  to our innovative SmartSiC technology for the automotive sector. This will help  us to drive our manufacturing efficiency, satisfy the growing demand from the  electric vehicle market, and offer  further added value to our  customers,” he adds. “At KLA we strongly value our customer relationships and R&D  investment as they provide us with the knowledge and technologies needed to  deliver the required process control  solutions at the right time,” says Jijen Vazhaeparambil, senior VP of the  Surfscan, ADE and ECI group. “Through our close collaboration with Soitec, we  were able to adapt our world-class Surfscan inspection technology for the  wide-bandgap substrate segment. The resulting Surfscan SP A2 system provides the sensitivity and  production capability needed to help Soitec achieve their stringent quality standards for SiC and other wide-bandgap  substrates.” 