ROHM’s fourth-generation SiC MOSFETs to be used in SEMIKRON’s eMPack power modules for EVs After  collaborating for over ten years on implementing silicon carbide (SiC) inside power modules,  the latest fourth generation of SiC MOSFETs of ROHM Semiconductor of Kyoto,  Japan has recently been fully qualified for automotive use in the eMPack  modules of SEMIKRON of Nuremberg, Germany. SEMIKRON also  says that it has secured a billion-Euro contract to supply its eMPack power modules to a major German car-maker,  beginning in 2025. The firm developed a fully sintered assembly and connection  technology ‘Direct Pressed Die’  (DPD), which enables extremely compact, scalable and reliable traction inverters.  The eMPack module technology has been specially designed for SiC-based  converters of medium and high power in order to fully exploit the properties of  silicon carbide. In addition, SEMIKRON provides  evaluation boards for eMPack that incorporate ROHM’s gate driver ICs, helping customers to shorten the time required  for evaluation and adoption. In the future, SEMIKRON also plans to use ROHM’s  IGBTs in modules for industrial applications.  Picture:   SEMIKRON’s CEO & CTO Karl-Heinz  Gaubatz (left), and CSO Peter Sontheimer (right), with ROHM Semiconductor GmbH’s president Wolfram  Harnack (center). “Thanks to ROHM’s  SiC technology, SEMIKRON’s innovative eMPack-family of power modules is ready to  make a significant contribution to reducing emissions through e-mobility,” says  SEMIKRON’s CEO & chief technology officer Karl-Heinz Gaubatz. “ROHM’s SiC  technology provides more efficiency, performance and reliability in automotive  and also industrial applications,” he comments.  Picture:   SEMIKRON’s eMPack power module. ROHM says that it  produces SiC components in-house in a vertically integrated manufacturing  system, enabling a constant market supply. The firm’s production subsidiary  SiCrystal in Nuremberg, Germany, plans to strongly grow its SiC wafer capacities  and human resources, in order to produce several 100,000 substrates a year. “SEMIKRON has  selected ROHM as SiC supplier for the automotive-qualified eMPack. This  partnership leads to a competitive solution for inverter application use inside  electrical vehicles,” says Isao Matsumoto, president &  CEO of ROHM Co Ltd.  “ROHM offers a broad portfolio of SiC devices – from chips to packages,” he  adds. “As the demand for SiC will continue to grow, ROHM will accelerate  further investment and product development based on the technology we have  cultivated as a leading SiC manufacturer. In addition, our company will  continue to propose solutions and deliver customer support.” ROHM was first to  mass produce SiC MOSFETs. Its fourth generation of SiC MOSFETs provides low ON-resistance  with improved short-circuit withstand time. These characteristics contribute  significantly to extend the driving range and miniaturize the batteries of EVs  when they are used in traction inverters. The firm hence develops energy-saving  SiC devices that reduce environmental impact. Both companies aim  to continue to contribute to automotive technology innovations by providing  optimal power solutions that meet market needs through the fusion of ROHM’s  device/control technologies and SEMIKRON’s module technologies that can  optimally combine them. SEMIKRON manufactures  power modules and systems primarily in the medium output range (about 2kW up to  10MW). Products are at the heart of energy-efficient motor drives and industrial automation systems. Further application  areas include power supplies, renewable energies (wind and solar power) and electric vehicles (private cars,  vans, buses, lorries, forklift trucks, and more). SEMIKRON says that its power electronic products enable customers to develop smaller,  more energy-efficient power electronic systems, which in turn reduce  the global energy demand. 