Infineon lays foundation of third wafer fab module in Kulim, Malaysia The foundation stone has  been laid for construction of a new wafer fab module at Infineon  Technologies (Kulim) Sdn Bhd in Kulim Hi-Tech Park (KHTP),  Malaysia. With more than RM8bn worth of investment, the third module will add  significant manufacturing capacity in power semiconductors, particularly  wide-bandgap technology based on silicon carbide (SiC) and gallium nitride  (GaN). Construction is expected to be completed by third-quarter 2024. The foundation stone ceremony  was officiated by guest of honour YAB Dato’ Seri Haji Muhammad  Sanusi Bin Haji Mohd Nor, chief minister of Kedah,  accompanied by Ng Kok Tiong, senior VP & managing director  of Infineon Technologies Kulim, Ms Lim Bee Vian, deputy CEO  (investment development) of the Malaysian Investment Development Authority  (MIDA), Ms Kam Ai Mei, chief financial officer, Infineon  Technologies (Kulim) Sdn Bhd, and Dr Raj Kumar, VP of  technology, Infineon Technologies (Kulim) Sdn Bhd.  Picture:   Ms Kam Ai Mei (Infineon), Ms Lim Bee Vian (MIDA), YAB Dato’ Seri  Muhammad Sanusi Md Noor (Menteri Besar Kedah), Ng Kok Tiong (Infineon) and Dr Raj Kumar  (Infineon) joining hands to launch the Foundation Stone Ceremony for Infineon Kulim’s third wafer fab module. “I am pleased that  Infineon, who has a long-term presence in Kedah, continues to expand in the  Kulim Hi-Tech Park (KHTP),” said YAB Dato’ Seri Haji Muhammad Sanusi Md Nor.  “Since KHTP’s establishment in 1996, the number of capital-intensive high-tech  manufacturing companies have steadily grown, bringing advanced technologies and  R&D activities as well as high-tech jobs to Kedah state, and creating a  vibrant economy for the local community,” he added. “We are fortunate to have  long-term and committed industry partners including Infineon, which have been  instrumental to bringing growth in Malaysia’s semiconductor industry,”  commented Ms Lim Bee Vian. “As we revel in the announcement for  the third facility today to increase the wafer fabrication of wide-bandgap  semiconductors, I am pleased to note that Infineon Kulim’s third module will be  instrumental in increasing Malaysia’s position in the global semiconductor  supply chain,” she added. “Our collective aim is to establish Malaysia as  one of the key partners in global semiconductor supply chains. Having  like-minded global partners like Infineon will strengthen our position in  global value chains and our goal to be an advanced manufacturing base in  the region driven by innovation. We are committed to supporting industry  leaders like Infineon,” she continued. “Malaysia is an important  hub for Infineon due to economies of scale already present in our front-end  wafer fab manufacturing in Kulim, and back-end chip manufacturing in  Melaka. When fully equipped, products from the new module will generate  additional €2bn in annual revenue,” said  Infineon Technologies’ chief operations officer Dr Rutger Wijburg.  “As decarbonization efforts gain momentum globally, demand from electric vehicles,  charging and storage infrastructures, and renewable energy for  wide-bandgap power semiconductors is growing, and we are prepared to  support the demand,” he added. “Malaysia offers a bright  and highly motivated talent pool that we can further invest in and grow via  on-the-job training and competency development,” said Ng Kok Tiong,  senior VP & managing director of Infineon Technologies Kulim, as  he expressed his gratitude to the Kedah State, MIDA and Malaysia government for  its support. “Bringing new technology to Malaysia requires skills to manage  complexity and experience to master the technology. The new module will create  900 high-value job opportunities adding to the existing employees at Infineon  Kulim.” The electrical and  electronics (E&E) industry contributes significantly to Malaysia’s GDP  growth, export earnings, investment and employment and plays a vital role in  the country’s industrial development, it is reckoned. In first-quarter 2022,  Malaysia attracted RM18.6bn (USD 4.4bn) in approved investments for the E&E  industry (among the top performing industries for the manufacturing sector). 