Siemens establishes power electronics innovation hub in UK with CSA Catapult Germany’s Siemens plc  has entered into a strategic innovation partnership with the UK’s Compound Semiconductor Applications (CSA)  Catapult to accelerate the development of leading-edge power electronics capability. The partnership  model, a first for both companies in the UK, aims to focus on the development  of disruptive power electronics and  building advanced skills in the UK. Established in 2017 by UK Government agency Innovate UK (which  provides funding and support for business innovation as part of UK Research and  Innovation), CSA Catapult is a not-for-profit  organization (headquartered in Newport, South Wales)  focused on accelerating the adoption of compound semiconductors  and on bringing applications to life in four technology areas: power electronics, RF & microwave, advanced  packaging and photonics. It works across the UK in a range of industry sectors  from automotive to medical, and from digital communications to aerospace. The partnership between Siemens and CSA  Catapult aims to deliver a series of joint projects and potential future  collaborative supply chain programs  with other UK companies. CSA Catapult  notes that it has a track record in bringing together end-to-end UK supply chains in power electronics. To facilitate engagement with the UK power electronics ecosystem such as universities, Catapults, RTOs  (research and technology organizations),  industrial partners, start-ups and grant-funding organizations, there will be a  dedicated Siemens power electronics  innovation hub at CSA Catapult in Newport, Wales. Siemens employees will be based on site at the Catapult, hosting  Siemens colleagues from new recruits to sponsored students and PhDs. Siemens  and CSA Catapult will jointly work on initiatives with other UK partners to  address the skills gaps in power electronics. For Siemens, power electronics is one of 11 Company Core  Technologies, innovation areas which are most critical for the long-term  success of the firm and its customers. Led by Digital Industries Motion Control  (DI MC), the hub is a joint initiative between Technology Power Electronics (T PEL) and the Research and  Innovation Ecosystem (T RIE), delivering disruptive technological solutions for  a more sustainable world.
  CSA Catapult’s role is to deliver long-term benefit to the UK  economy and accelerate UK economic growth in industries where applying compound semiconductors creates a competitive  advantage and enables new products or end markets. CSA Catapult is delivering three projects: ESCAPE, @FutureBEV and  Driving the Electric Revolution  Industrialisation Centres (DER-IC),  to create new UK supply chains and  accelerate electrification and Net Zero.  CSA Catapult is one of the four regional centers for DER-IC, a UK-wide  investment program. It develops supply chain  capability and competence for the underpinning of power electronics components and materials, towards UK net-zero  goals. “We are looking forward to expanding our Research and Innovation  Ecosystem of world-leading universities and research institutes working with  CSA Catapult,” says professor Rolf Hellinger, VP of Power Electronics at Siemens AG. “This collaboration will bring  radical and disruptive technologies to market – fast, risk mitigated and  economical,” he adds. “Siemens being an innovation leader in power electronics is creating a high-value UK  collaboration ecosystem with CSA Catapult, enabling us to accelerate  commercialization of next-generation disruptive technologies underpinned by  advanced PEMD skills,” comments Imran Agha, innovation manager, Innovation Centre  for Power Electronics at Siemens plc. “This will help with building more  sustainable, cleaner supply chains,  and create more jobs for the future,” he adds. “We are a global leader in compound semiconductor  technology, with made in Wales products powering devices in every  corner of the world,” says the Welsh Government’s Economy Minister, Vaughan  Gething. “It’s great to see such a major company choosing to co-locate their  first UK innovation hub alongside  the Catapult in Newport. This will help with developing the skills of our  existing and future workforce, and foster the ongoing development of the  compound semiconductor cluster,” he  adds. “Catapults are supported by Innovate UK to drive innovation  through a unique combination of facilities and expertise, and have a great  track record of attracting inward investment and accelerating clusters,” notes Simon  Edmonds, chief business officer at  UK Government agency Innovate UK (which  provides funding and support for business innovation as part of UK Research and  Innovation). “The Compound Semiconductor  Applications Catapult is continuing this through the valuable partnership with  Siemens, which will make a significant contribution to the CS cluster in South Wales, to the UK economy, and to the UK’s  capability in compound semiconductors,”  he reckons. “This is a significant milestone for CSA Catapult; it will help us  accelerate power electronics  projects across UK industry, to solve complex innovation problems,” comments CSA Catapult’s CEO Martin McHugh. “We are  hoping this is the first partnership of many and we are keen to discuss more,”  he adds. “Working with Siemens, we will accelerate our internal research  program and demonstrators and provide opportunities for our people.” Developing power electronics  skills across the UK is a priority, and working alongside Siemens will provide  opportunities to attract more talent and skills to the region. Working across  our industry, we will continue to build on our track record in bringing power electronic  supply chains together, to support  UK growth.” 