AmpliTech debuts MMIC designs and full product suite at IMS At the IEEE International Microwave Symposium (IMS) in Denver  (21-23 June), AmpliTech Group Inc of Hauppauge, NY, USA – which designs and makes signal-processing  radio frequency (RF) microwave components  for satellite communications, telecoms (5G & IoT), space, defense and  quantum computing markets – debuted its monolithic microwave  integrated circuit (MMIC) chip  designs. The MMIC chips bring what is claimed to be AmpliTech’s  industry-leading lowest noise figures  and power dissipation performance into a chip form factor.  The low noise figures and  low-power-dissipating MMIC chips are expected to enable up to 40% cost savings  in systems by promoting higher link availability,  increased data transmission  bandwidth, and maintaining up to a 6x longer life than the next best-performing  chips. IMS marked the first public appearance of AmpliTech’s full four  division lineup including the newly formed AmpliTech Group MMIC Design Center  (AGMDC), which was initiated last October, and Spectrum Semiconductor Materials of San Jose, CA, USA, acquired in December. These two units are  accretive to the group, as AGMDC enables the group to introduce AmpliTech’s  performance into a much more widespread form factor,  while Spectrum Semiconductor Materials  will package the MMICs and also serve as a global distributor of the chips.  They join analog amplifier  components manufacturer AmpliTech Inc  and RF subsystem manufacturer  Specialty Microwave to form a full RF product suite  that will create a one-stop-shop for RF system  needs and also enable AmpliTech Group to attract a broader range of sales  representation, it is reckoned, due to its now increased horizontal  integration. “We were looking forward to serving as a [gold] sponsor for the  event and welcoming our two new groups, AGMDC and Spectrum Semiconductor  Materials, to their very first show,” says founder & CEO Fawad Maqbool.  “AGMDC, based in Plano, TX, impressed attendees with the unprecedented specs  for their MMIC designs, which are expected to enable AmpliTech Group to reach  new markets given its use of a more flexible form factor  that will allow for integration into a variety of systems that our analog  amplifiers are not applicable to. Additionally, Spectrum Semiconductor Materials, our semiconductor packaging  unit, was able to discuss its ability to deliver much-needed integrated circuit packaging and technical support  to industries amid an ongoing shortage of semiconductor components with  attendees,” he adds. “Both these groups will serve a crucial role in providing products  that will support the future of wireless and broadband communication alongside  AmpliTech Inc and Specialty  Microwave,” Maqbool continues. “The progress we have made over the past year  has very well increased our ability to capture and fulfill larger orders from  customers building solutions in 5G, IoT and quantum computing, among other innovative applications.” 