Green QD micro-LED multi-Gbps visible light communication Researchers based in China and Taiwan  report record visible light communication  (VLC) performance for quantum-dot micro-sized green light-emitting diodes (QD  micro-LEDs) Zixian  Wei et al, ACS Photonics, published online 22 June 2022]. The team from Tsinghua University, Hong  Kong Polytechnic University, Harbin Institute of Technology Shenzhen, China,  and National Tsing Hua University, Taiwan, comment: “The proposed VLC system  has achieved a real-time distance-rate product of 4.2Gbps-m and an offline  distance-rate product of 10Gbps-m, which should be further emphasized as the  highest record of all the VLC systems based on the single-pixel green LED, to the best of our knowledge.” Further, one QD green micro-LED achieved a  claimed record data rate for a single green LED-based point-to-point real-time non-return-to-zero on-off keying (NRZ-OOK) VLC system of 2.1Gbits/s (Gbps) with a bit-error  rate (BER) of 2.7E-3. VLC is being proposed for near-field  communication (NFC) for downlink or optical device-to-device (D2D) links.  Heterogeneous high-speed VLC could use multi-color micro-LEDs in converged  illumination, positioning, display, and communication systems. It can be  deployed in free-space and underwater optical wireless communication (UOWC)  formats. The team comments: “There is an evolution  using a LED array to provide a higher emitting optical power while maintaining  the high modulation bandwidth. For the trade-off between single-pixel LED and  LED array, we consider the latter is more promising because it can provide more  illumination coverage or communication distance for actual VLC applications in  a specific space.” Higher signal power from array formats  could find deployment in intersatellite links, structured light positioning,  and multiuser VLC access. The team describes some of the trade-offs  for designing high-bandwidth LEDs: “As the size of the LED decreases, the  current density increases and directly leads to an increase in the E-O  bandwidth, but at the same time, the effect of sidewall defects also increases,  accompanied by a larger leakage current. These factors also restrict E-O  bandwidth from increasing indefinitely by shrinking the size.”  Figure  1: (a) Epitaxial and single-pixel QD micro-LED structure. (b) Transmission  electron microscope images of green V-W mode QDs. (c) Packaging of QD micro-LED  at 0mA and 20mA injected currents, respectively. (d) Corresponding TO-CAN macro  picture with front lens of 50μm-  and 75μm-diameter QD  micro-LEDs. The indium aluminium gallium nitride  (InAlGaN) epitaxial material for the QD micro-LEDs (Figure 1) was grown on 2-inch  sapphire, using metal-organic vapor phase  epitaxy: the undoped GaN buffer was 1μm thick; the n-GaN contact layer 3.5μm; the n-InGaN/GaN superlattice (SL) pre-strain  layer 10x(3nm/3nm); the p-AlGaN electron-blocking layer (EBL) 20nm; and the  p-GaN contact 180nm. The active light-emitting QD region was  grown in a Volmer-Weber (V-W) self-assembly mode, using a  precursor-alternate-admittance method followed by growth of the upper InGaN  layer. The QDs were typically 2-3nm high. 