Infineon and Delta strengthen collaboration on WBG-based server and gaming PC power solutions Global  megatrends, such as digitalization, and decarbonization, call for wide-bandgap  (WBG) devices (SiC/GaN). Due to their unique characteristics, they enable the  highest performance and energy efficiency at the same time. Targeting both of  these domains, Infineon Technologies AG of Munich, Germany and power supply  maker Delta Electronics Inc have deepened their collaboration. The latest  examples of their cooperation include Delta’s 1.4kW server power supply  and a 1.6kW Titanium gaming power platform. The 1.4kW server  power supply leverages Infineon’s CoolSiC  MOSFET technology and Delta’s multi-decade core competence in  power electronics to achieve beyond 96% efficiency. Another case for  highest efficiency is the 1.6kW gaming power platform powered by  Infineon’s CoolGaN technology  complemented with EiceDRIVER gate driver ICs. The efficiency of this  design reaches 96% at wide-range input and multi-output and meets the Titanium  standard in the industrial domain. This is enabled by Infineon’s CoolGaN gate-injected transistor (GIT) 600V  enhancement-mode high-electron-mobility transistor (e-mode HEMT), adapted in an  interleaving totem-pole power factor correction (PFC) topology.  Picture: Infineon’s 600V CoolGaN e-mode HEMT in an HSOF-8  package (left) and  
  Infineon’s 650V CoolSiC MOSFET device in a  TO247 4-pin package (right) Both design  examples demonstrate how Infineon’s broad, performance-driven portfolio of WBG  devices, together with Delta’s system innovation potential, can enable new  efficiency levels to meet and exceed modern application requirements, the firms  say. By deepening their collaboration, both companies target a leading position  in WBG-based platforms through cost-effective, robust solutions backed up by  what is claimed to be the highest supply stability. “Given our  commitment to investing over 8% of our annual revenues in R&D-based  innovation, Delta’s power supply solutions for servers and gaming PCs  provide the high-quality and high-efficiency components needed to build  customized, reliable and energy-efficient infrastructure which satisfies our  customers’ expectations,” claims Jimmy Yiin, VP & general manager of  Delta’s Power and System Business Group. “Being successful in such an  extremely competitive environment requires collaborating with highly  trustworthy, top-tier component suppliers with extensive system understanding  and offering fully customized solutions for application-specific requirements.  Infineon’s inclusive portfolio of WBG products made it possible to achieve  industry-leading energy efficiency for many of our customer’s applications,” he  adds. “Our  manufacturing scale and technology excellence, combined with a focus on quality  and reliability at each step of the value chain, are the key to success  factors for our wide-bandgap semiconductor business and are well recognized by  our customers,” reckons Johannes Schoiswohl, business line head, Efficient  Power Supplies, Isolation & Connectivity of Infineon’s Power &  Sensor Systems Division. “By applying rigorous qualification and reliability test  procedures to our devices, above and beyond standard JEDEC qualification, we  can predict the long-term behavior of our WBG devices and ensure reliability in  the field over the entire product lifecycle. We are excited about the  opportunities our collaboration with Delta holds for us in the server and  gaming market.” 