GaN Systems and PowerSphyr co-developing 30W, 100W and 500W industrial and automotive wireless charging solutions GaN Systems Inc of Ottawa, Ontario, Canada (a fabless developer of  gallium nitride-based power switching semiconductors for power  conversion and control applications) and wireless energy technology  developer PowerSphyr Inc of  Danville, CA, USA are collaborating to deliver a portfolio of end-to-end wireless power solutions (30W, 100W and 500W) for  industrial and automotive applications worldwide. Combined with new and  enhanced levels of customer service and support, the new portfolio provides  what is said to be an easy path to obtain the most compact, wireless power  solutions with industry-leading performance and cost. The  development builds on a multi-year strategic partnership to develop GaN-based  wireless power systems. The partnership combines PowerSphyr’s years of power technology expertise and GaN Systems’ gallium nitride  semiconductors. For example, PowerSphyr is now implementing GaN Systems’ power semiconductors on the receiver of the wireless charging solution in addition to the  transmitter. The combination delivers easy-to-use, high-performance and  completely wireless charging solutions  — the ongoing collaboration results in continuous innovation of hardware and  firmware solutions that adhere to wireless charging  standards. “Our combined  efforts will bring cutting-edge solutions, as well as comprehensive service and  support, to our industrial and automotive clients,” says PowerSphyr’s CEO Will  Wright. “GaN Systems and PowerSphyr are aligned around our strategic vision to  pioneer new and advanced wireless charging  solutions,” he adds. “By partnering with GaN Systems,  with their proven ability to rapidly deliver a comprehensive portfolio of  best-in-class GaN power semiconductors,  and PowerSphyr’s expertise in wireless power system design, we will enter a new  stage of wireless power.” GaN-based wireless  power solutions enable higher device placement,  spatial freedom, and more extensive air gaps  between transmitter and receiver. GaN transistors are optimal for maximizing  efficiency in applications from 30W up to several kilowatts – far more  significant than what is possible with traditional silicon solutions. “Our expertise in GaN power semiconductors, combined with  PowerSphyr’s proven portfolio of wireless power  technologies, is changing the game in wireless power charging,” reckons GaN Systems’  CEO Jim Witham. “Today’s announcement is pivotal as industrial and automotive  customers can get high-performance wireless charging  technologies powered by GaN and a full suite of service and support offerings.  This will accelerate our customers’ momentum, ease of use, and time-to-market.” 