UKRI awards National Epitaxy Facility £12m to support UK semiconductor R&D The UK’s National Epitaxy Facility, a collaboration between the Universities  of Sheffield, Cambridge and University College London (UCL), has been  awarded £12m in funding from UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) and will be a  critical element of the UK’s scientific and industrial strategy in  semiconductor technologies. Led by the University of Sheffield, the National Epitaxy Facility  is built on more than 40 years semiconductor and epitaxy research in the  Department of Electronic and Electrical Engineering. Its role is to deliver  bespoke semiconductor wafers to research projects in universities and industry  across the UK and to provide access to the expertise and resources needed to  progress from basic discovery to mass manufacture for major  economic/societal impact for the UK. Since 2017, the facility has supported £122m of research in 25  universities. The new funding means that the facility can continue to support  R&D in the UK for the next 5-10 years. “UKRI has continued to fund and support the National Epitaxy  Facility at this critical time for the UK to increase its technological  innovation in semiconductors,” notes National Epitaxy Facility director Jon  Heffernan, professor in Electrical Engineering at the  University of Sheffield. “Semiconductors have been the backbone  of modern technological society for more than 60 years and the  semiconductor industry has had an estimated overall economic value of around  $8tn. Practically every aspect of our modern world is dependent on  semiconductor devices, from silicon microchips that control computers, mobile  phones, aircraft and even washing machines, to the internet,  electric vehicles and LED lighting that has revolutionized global energy  efficiency,” he adds. “The pace of innovation and the demand for more and more advanced  technology means that semiconductors will continue to be one of the most  important and critical technologies of the 21st century, including in emerging  areas of great importance, such as quantum computing and artificial intelligence  (AI),” continues Heffernan. “Both the economic and strategic value of  semiconductors is being recognized by all technologically advanced countries.  Here in the UK, semiconductor innovation is key to addressing areas of critical  importance to our economy, such as net zero, electrification, telecommunications,  healthcare, security and quantum technologies. The National Epitaxy Facility  we’re leading from Sheffield will support the UK’s research community in  pioneering new types of semiconductor devices that will be the basis for future  technologies.” The UK’s electronics industry, of which semiconductors play a  fundamental role, contributes £16bn annually to the country’s economic output,  employing 300,000 people in 12,000 companies. The UK’s photonics industry,  which also relies on semiconductors, has a £13bn annual economic output,  employing 69,000 people across 1500 companies. The global market for compound semiconductor  components is expected to reach $43bn by 2025. The UK has a strong industrial base in semiconductor manufacturing  with leading companies such as IQE, Lumentum, Plessey and II-VI all  manufacturing semiconductor-based products for global markets. “Cambridge will have the opportunity to continue to support the UK  semiconductor community via the National Epitaxy Facility,” comments professor Rachel Oliver,  who leads the University of Cambridge’s work in the facility.  “The UK semiconductor ecosystem is extraordinarily innovative, on both the  industrial and academic sides, and is underpinned by the availability of  state-of-the-art epitaxial materials,” she adds. “Through the new facility,  such materials will be at the heart of future collaborations between  world-class researchers, driving real-world economic and societal impact.” 