Intel Labs demos eight-wavelength laser array on silicon wafer with matched power and uniform spacing Intel Labs of Santa Clara, CA, USA has  announced advances in multi-wavelength integrated optics, including the  demonstration of an eight-wavelength distributed feedback (DFB) laser  array that is fully integrated on a silicon wafer and delivers output power  uniformity of ±0.25dB and wavelength spacing uniformity of ±6.5% that  exceed industry specifications. “This new  research demonstrates that it’s possible to achieve well-matched output power  with uniform and densely spaced wavelengths,” says senior principal engineer Haisheng Rong. “Most importantly, this can be done using  existing manufacturing and process controls in Intel’s fabs, thereby ensuring a  clear path to volume production of the next-generation co-packaged optics and  optical compute interconnect at scale.” It is reckoned that the advance will enable the production of the  optical source with the required performance for future high-volume  applications, such as co-packaged optics and optical compute interconnect for  emerging network-intensive workloads including artificial intelligence (AI)  and machine learning (ML). The laser array is built on Intel’s 300mm  silicon photonics manufacturing process to pave the way for high-volume  manufacturing and broad deployment.  Picture:
        Eight-channel  hybrid III-V/silicon DFB laser array (courtesy of Intel Corp). Market research firm Gartner forecasts that silicon photonics  will be used in more than 20% of all high-bandwidth data-center communications  channels by 2025 (up from less than 5% in 2020) and will represent a total  available market of $2.6bn. The growing demand for low power consumption,  high bandwidth and faster data transfer is driving the need for  silicon photonics to support data-center applications and beyond. Optical connections began replacing copper wires in the 1980s due  to the inherent high bandwidth of light transmission in optical fibers instead  of electrical impulses transmitted through metal wires. Since then, the  technology has become more efficient due to reduced component size and cost, leading  to breakthroughs in the past few years in using optical interconnects for  network solutions, typically in switches, data centers and other  high-performance computing (HPC) environments. With the rise of electrical interconnect performance limitations,  integrating silicon circuitry and optics side by side on the same package holds  the promise of a future input/output (I/O) interface with improved energy  efficiency and longer reach. These photonic technologies were achieved in  Intel’s fab using existing process technologies, which translates to favorable  cost reductions of large-scale manufacturing. Recent co-packaged optics solutions using dense  wavelength division multiplexing (DWDM) technology have shown the promise  of increasing bandwidth while significantly reducing the physical size of  photonic chips. However, it has been very difficult to produce DWDM light  sources with uniform wavelength spacing and power until now. Intel says that this new advance ensures consistent wavelength  separation of light sources while maintaining uniform output power,  resulting in meeting one of the requirements for optical compute interconnect  and DWDM communication. The next generation of compute I/O using optical  interconnect can be tailor-made for the extreme demands of future  high-bandwidth AI and ML workloads. The eight-wavelength DFB array was designed and fabricated using  Intel’s commercial 300mm hybrid silicon photonics platform, which is used  to manufacture production optical transceivers in volume. This innovation is  reckoned to represent a significant advance in the capabilities of laser  manufacturing in a high-volume complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor (CMOS)  fab by utilizing the same lithography technology used to manufacture 300mm silicon  wafers with tight process control. For this research, Intel used advanced lithography to define the  waveguide gratings in silicon prior to the III-V wafer bonding process.  This technique resulted in better wavelength uniformity compared with conventional  lasers manufactured in 3-inch or 4-inch III-V wafer fabs. In addition, due to  the tight integration of the lasers, the array also maintains its channel  spacing when the ambient temperature is changed. Intel says that, as a pioneer of silicon photonics technology, it  is committed to developing solutions to meet the growing demand for a more  efficient and resourceful network infrastructure. Core technology  building blocks under development include light generation, amplification,  detection, modulation, CMOS interface circuits and package integration  technologies.  Picture:      Eight  micro-ring modulators and optical waveguide. Each micro-ring modulator is tuned  to a specific wavelength, do each micro-ring can individually modulate the  light to enable independent communication (courtesy of Intel Corp). In addition, many aspects of the eight-wavelength integrated laser array  technology are being implemented by Intel’s Silicon Photonics Products Division  as part of a future optical compute interconnect chiplet product. The  forthcoming product will offer power-efficient, high-performance multi-terabits per second  interconnect between compute resources including CPUs, GPUs and memory. The  integrated laser array is a critical element to achieve a compact and  cost-effective solution that supports high-volume manufacturing and deployment,  says Intel. 