TRUMPF presents VCSEL heating system for perforating separator foils in Li batteries for e-mobility In booth A10 (Hall 10) at  the Battery Show Europe in Stuttgart (28-30 June), TRUMPF Photonic Components GmbH of Ulm,  Germany (part of the TRUMPF Group) – which manufactures vertical-cavity  surface-emitting lasers (VCSELs) and photodiodes for the  consumer electronics, datacoms, industrial sensing, heating and  automotive markets – is presenting a new application field for  its VCSEL heating systems in the manufacturing process of lithium ion  (Li) batteries for e-mobility. Li batteries benefit from an  increase in safety, performance and reliability due to the high accuracy of the  VCSEL heating systems  to perforate separator foils (which are key components within Li batteries).  The permeable membrane is placed between the anode and cathode to prevent  electrical short-circuits and to allow the smooth transport of ionic charge carriers.  With VCSEL heating systems, even very thin separator foils can be  processed quickly and homogeneously. As a result, battery safety is increased  because the process enables a good battery shutdown function when overheating.  Picture:
        VCSEL heating system. Laser  heat treatment with VCSEL-based systems offers highly accurate solutions for a  number of process steps, such as perforating, drying, sealing and joining. “Compared to other production  methods, the VCSEL heating systems can be an enabler to reduce  overall manufacturing costs and to improve battery charging times at the same  time,” says Ralph Gudde, VP marketing & sales. “We see high potential for  our unique VCSEL heat treatment in various battery manufacturing  steps, not only in precisely perforating separator foils and enabling higher  hole-density levels but also, for example, in the drying of battery foils or in  pouch cell  sealing,” he adds. The robust and compact laser modules can be integrated  easily into industrial production processes.  Picture:      Processed  separator foils with VCSEL heating systems. VCSEL heating systems are used to  irradiate a printed micro-pattern on an electrode foil. The IR laser is  absorbed only on the printed pattern and creates micro-holes with a diameter of  3–22μm through the substrate. Swiss firm L-Europe is the first  company that developed and patented a complete process and system for  perforating battery separator foils, using TRUMPF VCSEL heating systems  as key elements within their system. The optical power of the VCSEL heating systems  can be regulated precisely. Using infrared radiation, printed micro-patterns on  the electrode foil are heated and the separator foil is hence perforated. While  the infrared laser of the VCSEL system is absorbed only on the printed  patterns, micro-holes are created through the substrate. “There are great process results  with the VCSEL heating systems from TRUMPF. We have achieved a  hole density of 5000 holes per square centimeter with a hole diameter of  3-22μm,” says L-Europe’s chief technology officer Thomas Kreimer.  “Having TRUMPF as a supplier of the key element of our systems supports our  promise in offering highly reliable systems for the battery process chain,” he  adds. VCSEL heating systems are well suited to treat the heat-resistant  separator foils, TRUMPF reckons. 