Guerrilla RF launches PA delivering 18dBm of wideband linear power without DPD Guerrilla RF Inc (GRF) of Greensboro,  NC, USA – a provider of radio-frequency integrated circuits (RFICs) and  monolithic microwave integrated circuits (MMICs) for wireless applications  – is now sampling the GRF5317, the first  of a series of new 0.1W linear power amplifiers  being developed. The latest indium gallium phosphide  (InGaP) heterojunction bipolar transistor (HBT) amplifiers were  designed specifically for 5G wireless infrastructure applications requiring  exceptional native linearity over large 500MHz bandwidths and temperature extremes  of -40°C to 85°C. Spanning a frequency range of 1.5–2.0GHz, the GRF5317 is tuned to  operate within the n1, n2, n3, n25, n34, n39, n65, n66, n70, n80, n84 and n86  5G new radio (NR) bands. The devices  typically deliver 18dBm of linear power over the entire -40°C to 85°C  temperature range while maintaining ACLR (adjacent-channel  leakage ratio) levels of better than -45dBc and IMD3 (third-order intermodulation distortion) levels  <-25dBm – all without the aid of supplemental linearization schemes like digital  pre-distortion (DPD). The ability to beat the -45dBc ACLR performance metric without DPD  is critical for cellular applications like home and commercial  repeaters/boosters, femtocells and picocells, as well as cable loss  compensators which are used in conjunction with automotive ‘shark fin’ antennas. In each of these use cases, the sensitivity to cost, power and  size constraints prohibits the use of elaborate linearization techniques like  DPD. Instead, designers must rely on the power amplifier’s  native linearity to meet the stringent emissions mask requirements imposed by  the latest 5G standards. During the development of the GRF53xx series, Guerrilla RF  consulted directly with its customers to ensure that the devices delivered the  best blend of power and linearity, thus maximizing the effective range and  throughput for their cellular systems. The firm also designed the family of  devices to be fully footprint compatible, enabling its customer base to rapidly  customize their designs for a myriad of cellular frequencies. “As the first of a new series of 0.1W linear PAs, the GRF5317 will  serve our customers well as they round out their own cellular offerings,” says CEO  & founder Ryan Pratt. “GRF now provides pin-pin compatible linear PAs that  can cover the 0.1W, 0.25W and 0.5W power spectrum, giving customers the ability  to simply swap in different devices to address a variety of output power  scenarios. The GRF53xx series can also work in conjunction with its 0.5W  cousins, serving as linear drivers for the higher-power cores.” The GRF5317 comes in a 3mm x 3mm, 16-pin QFN package. Samples and  evaluation boards are available now. Prices start at $1.43 (in 10,000-unit quantities, EXW USA). 