Transphorm’s reference design portfolio kick-starts USB-C PD GaN power adapter development Transphorm Inc of Goleta, near Santa Barbara,  CA, USA — which designs and manufactures JEDEC- and AEC-Q101-qualified gallium nitride  (GaN) field-effect transistors (FETs) for high-voltage power conversion — has announced the availability of seven  reference designs intended to speed  development of GaN-based USB-C PD power adapters.  The portfolio includes a wide range of open frame design options with various topologies, outputs,  and wattages (45-140W) to choose from. The power adapter reference designs use SuperGaN Gen IV 650V FETs to deliver ease-of-design  and high reliability with high performance.  In recent analysis, compared with a 175mΩ  e-mode GaN device, Transphorm’s 240mΩ  SuperGaN FET showed lower on-resistance rise with temperatures above 75°C and  higher performance at 50% and 100% (full) power. Transphorm’s portfolio includes five open frame USB-C PD reference designs  ranging in frequency from 140kHz to 300kHz. As an example, Transphorm partnered  with Silanna Semiconductor on a 65W active clamp  flyback (ACF) RD running at 140kHz with a peak efficiency of 94.5%: Transphorm’s portfolio also includes two open frame USB-C PD/PPS reference designs  ranging in frequency from 110kHz to 140kHz. Transphorm partnered with  Diodes Inc on both solutions, leveraging the company’s ACF controller to  achieve greater than 93.5% peak efficiency: “Transphorm is unique in that it offers the only portfolio of GaN FETs covering the widest range of power  levels for the broadest range of applications,” says Tushar Dhayagude, VP,  field applications & technical sales. “Our power adapter reference designs  spotlight our low-power capabilities. We offer controller-agnostic PQFN and  TO-220 devices that can dramatically simplify design,” he adds. “These  features, along with others, help our customers go to market quickly and easily  with a GaN solution capable of achieving ground-breaking power efficiency levels.” 