Teledyne e2v HiRel releases rad-hard 30GHz SPDT RF switch for space applications Teledyne e2v HiRel Electronics of Milpitas, CA, USA (part of the Teledyne  Defense Electronics Group that provides solutions, sub-systems and  components to the space, transportation, defense and industrial markets) has  announced the availability of the model TDSW030A2T radiation-tolerant 30GHz,  single-pole double-throw (SPDT) reflective RF switch, which is suitable  for demanding high-reliability, space and defense applications and is now  available with qualified material off-the-shelf. Developed on 0.15μm indium gallium arsenide  (InGaAs) pseudomorphic high-electron-mobility transistor (pHEMT) technology, the  new RF switch will be available as die and is qualified per MIL-PRF-38534  Class K equivalency for space applications.  Picture: Teledyne  e2v HiRel’s TDSW030A2T 30GHz rad-hard SPDT RF switch. The TDSW030A2T leverages monolithic microwave integrated circuit  (MMIC) design techniques that deliver superior performance in the Ku and Ka  microwave and millimeter-wave bands. The switch delivers low insertion loss,  high isolation, fast switching times, and high linearity across a wide  frequency band from DC to 30GHz and attains an input power 1dB compression  of 25dBm (typical). Class K equivalent element evaluation is performed per  wafer. “While switching is one of the core microwave building blocks,  there has been a lack of choice for designers working on high-reliability  applications,” says Mont Taylor, VP & business development manager at  Teledyne e2v HiRel. “Joining our successful release of a 20GHz switch  last fall, this new product is the first 30GHz switch qualified as TID  radiation tolerant to 100krad (Si) on the market.” Devices are available for ordering and shipment now, from Teledyne e2v HiRel  or an authorized distributor, in commercial versions and with the  option of Class H equivalent screening. They are shipped from the firm’s  DoD Trusted Facility in Milpitas. 