IQE announces multi-year, high-volume strategic epiwafer supply agreement with Lumentum Epiwafer and substrate maker IQE plc of  Cardiff, UK has signed a multi-year agreement with Lumentum Holdings Inc of  San Jose, CA, USA (which designs and makes photonics products for optical  networks and lasers for industrial and consumer markets) for  the supply of epiwafers supporting 3D sensing, light detection &  ranging (LiDAR) for automotive and optical networking applications. Lumentum has been a long-term  partner of IQE. Effective immediately, the multi-year agreement is focused on  high-volume production of epiwafers which will be used across Lumentum’s portfolio  of laser products, in particular to enable LiDAR for autonomous vehicles (AVs),  where IQE will be the epitaxy partner of choice for this technology. The partnership between IQE and  Lumentum will also span a wider range of technologies such as biometric  security, data communications, and extended reality. There is also further  provision for multi-year joint R&D initiatives. “Our partnership with Lumentum is  in alignment with our strategy to strengthen our customer relationships and to  enter into long-term agreements securing wafer supply,” says IQE’s CEO Americo Lemos. “Lumentum and  IQE are industry leaders in the 3D sensing space, and this partnership  is underpinned by IQE’s unrivalled technology portfolio. We look forward to our  continued collaboration and expansion of our business relationship into new  market segments,” he adds. “I am pleased to extend our  fruitful partnership with IQE into the future. They supported our ramp to high  volumes in the consumer space, where we have shipped more than 1 billion  large-scale VCSEL [vertical-cavity surface-emitting laser] arrays,” says Lumentum’s CEO Alan Lowe. “As we start  to ramp high volumes of differentiated solutions into even more demanding  applications in the coming years in the automotive, extended reality  and industrial spaces, I’m sure our partnership will continue to flourish.” 