II-VI and ADVA unveil first 100ZR pluggable coherent transceiver for optical network edge Engineered materials and optoelectronic component  maker II-VI Inc of Saxonburg, PA, USA and open optical networking solutions provider ADVA of  Munich, Germany have launched what is claimed to be the first 100ZR pluggable  coherent transceiver. Jointly defined and purpose-built for the optical network  edge, the coherent 100ZR transceiver is rated for both commercial- and  industrial-temperature (C-temp and I-temp) operating ranges. The new 100ZR  digital coherent optics (DCO) transceiver features the Steelerton coherent  digital signal processor (DSP). Co-funded by both companies, this all-new DSP  is said to be completely unique to the marketplace.  Picture:       ADVA’s new pluggable  100ZR transceiver. The rapid growth of data traffic in 5G wireless and broadband  access networks is driving demand for next-generation transmission technology  that enables service providers to expand the capacity of their bandwidth  aggregation infrastructure at the edge of the network. The new coherent 100ZR  transceiver now empowers service providers to deploy 100Gbps coherent  transceiver technology in the access network easily and affordably. These  benefits are achieved due to the transceiver’s unique features, including a  coherent DSP optimized for 100ZR, cost-efficient silicon photonics  technology, a standard QSFP28 interface, and Flextune technology. “With this new application-specific transceiver technology,  service providers can now benefit from the simplicity and robustness of  coherent technology in the access network and seamlessly upgrade millions of  10Gbps Ethernet links to 100Gbps,” says Henning Hinderthür, VP of product line  management at ADVA. “While this product design is perfectly tailored to this  application, it will also achieve economies of scale by leveraging II-VI’s  track record of manufacturing transceivers in high volume,” he adds. “We’ve had great feedback from both carriers and OEMs on this  product, and are pleased to partner with ADVA on this key milestone for the  industry,” states Matthias Berger, VP, coherent technology, at II-VI Inc.  “The transceiver includes the Steelerton DSP, a first-of-its-kind and  game-changing coherent processor, due to its small size and low power consumption,  which are both key to achieving the standard QSFP28 power dissipation  requirement of less than 5W,” he adds. “What makes this transceiver even more  compelling for carriers is the embedded auto-tunable Flextune technology, which  lowers operational expenses by simplifying network deployments. It’s the ideal  combination of cost-effective coherent technology with plug-and-play ease of  use.” The new coherent 100ZR transceiver plugs  directly into existing head-ends, switches and routers, enabling existing  network elements to transmit 100Gbps signals over links stretching up to  several hundred kilometers. The 100ZR transceivers are offered in both C-temp  and I-temp variations to meet a broad range of deployment options, including  central offices and local exchanges, as well as in more challenging ambient environments,  such as in street cabinets. 