Scintil raises €13.5m in second-round financing led by Robert Bosch Scintil Photonics of  Grenoble, France and Toronto, Canada, a fabless developer of  silicon photonic integrated circuits (integrated laser arrays,  800Gb/s transmitters and receivers, tunable transmitters and receivers, as well as optical I/O for near chip and chip-chip communication), has secured €13.5m ($14.4m) in a second round  of funding, led by Robert Bosch  Venture Capital (RBVC) and joined by  reinvestment from historic shareholders Supernova Invest, Innovacom and  Bpifrance (through its Digital Venture fund). Total funding to date is now  €17.5m ($18.8m) following the €4m ($4.4m) first round in September 2019. Scintil’s optical communications aim to  significantly enhance traditional high-speed system and chip interconnections.  The firm’s Augmented Silicon Photonic  Integrated Circuit (IC) product is a  single-chip solution consisting of active and passive components, all made  entirely from standard silicon photonics  processes available at CMOS commercial foundries, and where III-V optical  amplifiers and lasers are integrated on the backside of silicon photonic circuits. This unique all-in-one  integration of amplifiers and lasers enables ultra-high-speed communications,  due to extensive parallelization and higher bit rates,  e.g. from 800Gb/s to 3,200Gb/s with very compact chips. Scintil will use the new funds to take its  industrialization program to the next level and speed up the global  commercialization of products that boost communications in data centers, high-performance computing (HPC)  and 5G networks. Scintil’s products are said to be unique in providing optical  communication applications with higher bit rates  and scalable, cost-effective and mass-producible photonic integrated circuit  (PIC) solutions. This can enable the multi-billion-dollar electronics industry  to overcome the end of Moore’s Law  with the integration of very high-speed optical communications, the firm adds. “Scintil Photonics is delighted to welcome  Robert Bosch Venture Capital, a leading global investor; this is a great  opportunity for us to boost our global footprint,” comments Scintil’s president  & CEO Sylvie Menezo. “We are also grateful for the support of our first  customers, to whom we have shipped or are currently shipping product  prototypes, as well as our trusted suppliers and employees. Together, including  the significant contributions in this round from our existing investors, this  demonstrates the major progress we have made over the past three years in taking our disruptive photonic circuit technology to the fast-growing  market segments of optical interconnects in 5G, cloud HPC and datacom,” she  adds. “Scintil Photonics’ monolithic integration  of III-V lasers into silicon photonic  chips is a key enabler for next-generation telecom, datacom and sensing,”  comments RBVC’s managing director Ingo  Ramesohl. “The CMOS-compatible process allows for higher design freedom, lower losses and a smaller  footprint at low cost. We are excited to partner with Scintil Photonics as it  uniquely unlocks further miniaturization and integration of photonic integrated circuits,” he adds. “We have supported Scintil since its  inception and believe that the company’s capability to integrate lasers in  advanced silicon photonics is second  to none currently on offer for the industry,” says Marion Aubry, investment  director of the Bpifrance Digital Venture  team. “We are delighted to strengthen our  continuous support to Scintil Photonics as the company reaches a new  dimension,” says Vincent Deltrieu, partner and member of the board at Innovacom.  “As a multi-stage deep-tech specialist, we are impressed by its technological success  and the team’s ability to transform that into a commercial success. Scintil  Photonics products are tackling the energy-efficiency issue in heavy loaded  data-center applications and 5G infrastructures,” he adds. “Our continuous engagement with Scintil  Photonics is another example of how Supernova Invest partners with  game-changing deep-tech start-ups to deliver to industry highly innovative and  fast-to-market solutions, while reducing the cost of mass-produced fully  integrated photonic circuits,” says  Pierre-Emmanuel Struyven, president & managing partner  at Supernova Invest. 