Qorvo launches 8W gallium nitride PA modules for 5G designs Qorvo  Inc of Greensboro, NC, USA (which provides core technologies and RF solutions  for mobile, infrastructure and defense applications) has launched the QPA3908 and QPA3810, two gallium nitride (GaN) 8W  power amplifier modules (PAMs) that offer a combination of high  performance and a significantly smaller footprint than traditional discrete  component solutions, reducing the board-level footprint required by network  infrastructure equipment manufacturers. The products target applications such  as massive MIMO (multiple-input,  multiple-output) base stations and open  radio access networks (O-RAN)  for active antenna systems. The QPA3908 and QPA3810 are integrated two-stage PAMs designed for  massive MIMO applications with 8W RMS at the device output. The QPA3908  has an operating frequency range of 3.7–3.98GHz, supporting US C-band  applications. The QPA3810 has an operating frequency range of 3.4–3.8GHz,  supporting applications in European markets. Both modules are input/output  matched at 50Ω and require minimal external components. Japan’s NEC Corp has partnered with Qorvo to implement the  QPA3908 and QPA3810 PAMs to deliver an advanced 5G end-to-end O-RAN network. “Qorvo’s GaN solutions for 5G are a means to minimize cost and  increase capacity,” says Diwakar Vishakhadatta, general manager of Qorvo’s  Infrastructure business. “These two GaN-powered modules support the growth of  5G rollouts in the US and Europe with greater integration at the board level,  and reduced complexity,” he adds. “Our focus is on efficiency and linearity for  our customer partners.” The QPA3908 and QPA3810 each incorporate a driver PA and  Doherty final stage delivering high power-added efficiency (PAE) for the  entire module at 8W average power. The modules are input and output matched  components providing superior performance and are completely assembled with no  additional tuning necessary. These single-tuned modules simplify 5G network  architecture and reduce design time, offering a more elegant solution than  multiple discrete PAs, says Qorvo. The QPA3908 and QPA3810 PAMs are available now and are ramping up  to support key customer 5G deployments for North America. 