GaN Systems Cup 2022 design competition underway GaN Systems Inc of Ottawa, Ontario, Canada (a fabless developer of  gallium nitride-based power switching semiconductors for power  conversion and control applications) says that the eighth annual ‘GaN Systems Cup’ China Power Supply Society (CPSS) design competition is now underway —  with 50 teams from China’s top universities selected to enter the preliminary  round of competition. This year’s competition focuses on sparking innovation in  high-efficiency and high-power-density single-stage photovoltaic inverters  using GaN Systems’ power  transistors. “The young  engineers participating in the GaN Systems  Cup are helping define the future of the power electronics  industry, and their focus on next-generation GaN-powered designs will help  drive innovation in energy conservation, emission reduction, and new energy utilization,” says GaN Systems’ CEO Jim Witham. This year’s  teams are challenged to create a GaN-based 400V photovoltaic power supply design that uses GaN Systems’ semiconductors to meet the  following evaluation criteria: Hosted by the  China Power Supply Society (CPSS)  and Hefei University of Technology, more than 160 teachers, students and power  electronics practitioners attended the virtual launch ceremony. Professors Ma Mingyao and Zhao Jiwen of the Hefei University of Technology and Dr Zhang Jinfa,  vice chairman of the China Power Supply Society and chairman of the  Science Popularization Committee,  presided over the ceremony. Paul Wiener, VP of marketing at GaN Systems, discussed the importance of  higher-performing power electronics  — and the role of GaN technology in driving critical improvements. Finalists will  be announced on 25 August, and  winners will be recognized during an on-site awards ceremony in November during  the CPSS Annual Conference. Designs will be judged on design criteria,  functionality, ingenuity and presentation quality. More than 100 colleges and  universities have participated in this annual competition since its launch in  2015. The GaN  Systems Cup receives support from GaN Systems,  Ningbo Xici Electronic Technology Co Ltd,  Zhuhai Taiwei Electronics Co Ltd, Edex Electronics Co Ltd,  and Minye Science and Technology Information (Shanghai) Co Ltd. 