Ampleon showcasing new products at IMS At the IEEE International Microwave Symposium (IMS 2022)  at the Colorado  Convention Center in Denver, CO, USA, Ampleon  Netherlands B.V. of Nijmegen, The Netherlands is introducing several new  gallium nitride (GaN) and LDMOS solutions intended for use in wireless  infrastructure, aerospace & defense, non-cellular communications (NCC),  industrial, scientific & medical (ISM), cooking and defrosting  applications. Visitors to booth #8068 (Hall A-C) can see selected key  products from the wireless infrastructure portfolio including GaN and LDMOS  RF power solutions for 4G and 5G base-station applications. Also on show is  Ampleon’s highly efficient small-cell power amplifier portfolio that  enables high output powers in footprint-compatible packages. Visitors can also see a variety of integrated massive MIMO RF  solutions, suitable for use in all 5G frequency bands for 64T and 32T  systems. The best-in-class RF power amplifiers for high-power macro base stations  with LDMOS Doherty drivers and GaN final-stage devices for a wide range of  output powers. The integrated LDMOS Doherty drivers (including the B11G2327N70D  and B11G3338N80D) have the carrier, peaking device, input splitter, output combiner  and pre-match all in a compact PQFN package. The C4H10P600A is a 600W GaN  packaged asymmetric Doherty power transistor for base-station applications  at frequencies from 700MHz to 1GHz. Ampleon’s booth is also showcasing the latest RF power amplifiers  from the industrial,  medical, aerospace and broadband domains including new  next-generation GaN amplifiers for broadband L- and S-band applications and an  exclusive preview of rugged GaN amplifiers that have been pre-matched for  industrial applications at 915MHz and 2.4GHz. Also on show are what are claimed to be the industry’s most rugged  50V and 65V LDMOS amplifiers suitable for RF power generators that are  required to operate in the harshest possible environments. In addition, suited  to tough conditions is a range of all-in-one RF generators based on the  ART150PEG. These RF power generators are tailored for defrosting applications  at 40.68MHz or for use in wireless charging at 6.78MHz. Also, senior team members are present technical papers at  IMS. On 21 June at 3:10pm (Interactive Forum Area, room 2A-2B) Ammar  Issaoun is talking about a ‘GaN characterization method towards  linearizability prediction’. On 23 June at 2.40pm (room 501-502)  Fred van Rijs is presenting ‘A 39W Fully Digital Wideband  Inverted Doherty Transmitter’. 