CompoundTek and STAr co-develop silicon photonics wafer testers Singapore-based silicon photonic (SiPh)  foundry services provider CompoundTek Pte Ltd and reliability  test system and probe-card supplier STAr Technologies Inc of Hsinchu,  Taiwan have developed a silicon photonics  (SiPh) wafer test solution with  automatic fiber array block edge coupling. This should help to address the demand from SiPh product companies  and manufacturers to be able to test the wafer according to how the light is  coupled into the SiPh product in the end application,  thus expanding the test coverage capability of the wafer test. This is possibly  the only SiPh tester with the capability for edge coupling  fiber arrays automatically to SiPh  ICs with trench widths smaller than 100µm, with high repeatability and  efficiency. “Testing the die using vertical grating coupler will compromise  the test coverage of the wafer testing, as the test condition is not the same  as per what it is going to be used in the field,” notes CompoundTek’s CEO Raj  Kumar. “Furthermore, designers will have to allocate space in the prime die for  this vertical grating coupler and their test structure, increasing the die size  as a result, while lowering gross die per wafer,” he adds. “Skipping the wafer test totally will drive up the overall cost of  products, as companies cannot identify SiPh known good dies (KGD) before assembling with other  dies, resulting in overall high costs and material wastage if a defective SiPh  is assembled,” Kumar continues. SiPh is now a technology that is not only used to displace  traditional electrical interconnects but also used in a broad range of  applications, including light detection & ranging (LiDAR), quantum computing, and biosensing. However, the  integration of optical components on a chip creates a host of new engineering  and high-volume manufacturing challenges in wafer-level testing of SiPh devices  as most of the products use an edge coupler  to couple the light in and out of the chip. To get around the challenges of the  edge coupler, most product companies  either use a vertical grating coupler  during wafer test or they choose to skip wafer test and only test after the SiPh  test is assembled and packaged. CompoundTek and STAr enable this technology  with very precise positioning of a fiber array  block with accuracy and repeatability down to 0.1µm, in a narrow trench  typically less than 100µm wide. The test fibers can deflect the light at about  90 degrees into the edge coupler  with low optical power insertion loss  and extremely low light reflection.  This is enabled through patent-pending fiber alignment  test kits and pattern recognition software that applies to all  SiPh devices for both optical-optical and electro-optical tests. “The jointly developed tester managed to address the technical  challenges required for wafer-level efficient edge coupling  testing with up to 50% reduction in setup and alignment test time while keeping  test system cost as low as 40% lower  than that of others available in the market,” says STAr’s CEO & founder Dr Choon Leong. “This partnership marks a  new milestone for SiPh testing that successfully meets the market’s present and  future needs for a reliable and cost-efficient test system for both vertical  and edge coupling, especially for high-volume testing. We believe that our test  solution has hit the sweet spot in terms of meeting performance and cost  requirements.” The technology shift in the form of SiPh demonstrates the  potential for measurable gains in speed, power efficiency and density, says CompoundTek.  The first wave of the SiPh revolution is poised to roll over data centers around the world with optical  interconnects that break the barriers set by copper wire. In parallel, the  development of SiPh transceivers has resulted in increased demand for  cost-effective wafer test solutions,  enabling the industry to improve its quality control  coverage at the wafer level,  potentially driving down product costs due to failures after packaging.  CompoundTek has a line-up of over 20 global commercial customers alongside  collaborations with more than 20 research institutes and universities in  various applications such as telecommunications, automotive radar, data  communications, biosensing, artificial intelligence  (AI), quantum computing and smart  sensors. 