Navitas’ GaNFast power ICs powering Anker’s 100W fast charger Gallium nitride (GaN) power IC firm  Navitas Semiconductor Corp of El Segundo, CA, USA and Dublin, Ireland  says that its GaNFast power ICs with GaNSense technology are powering  the new 100W fast charger of consumer electronics firm Anker Innovations of  Changsha, Hunan, China. Both the GaNFast ICs  and the Anker 736 Charger (Nano II 100W)  multi-port (2x USB-C, 1x USB-A) charger are 2022 Consumer Electronics Show (CES) Innovation Award honorees, with the Anker 736 officially launched to the market in  May. Compatible with USB 3.0 PD PPS and Qualcomm Quick Charge 3.0,  and measuring only 67mm x 31.5mm x 56.97mm (120cc) the charger achieves a  power density of 0.83W/cc and can  deliver a 50% charge to an Apple MacBook Pro 16 2021  in just 40 minutes. Since GaN runs up  to 20x faster than legacy silicon, gallium nitride  chargers can achieve 3x the power or 3x faster charging with up to 40% energy  savings in just half the size and weight. Navitas’ GaNSense technology integrates real-time, accurate and  fast sensing of system parameters (including current and temperature) and  achieves patent-pending, loss-less current sensing  to deliver an additional 10% energy savings. GaNSense enables a  ‘detect-to-protect’ time of only 30ns – 6x faster than discrete GaN power chips for increased system  reliability. The Nano II 100W uses two NV6136A ICs, one in the  boost PFC (power factor correction)  stage, the other in a high-frequency quasi-resonant (HFQR) flyback converter,  using loss-less current sensing for  high-efficiency, cool operation and fast charging. “By using Navitas GaNFast ICs instead of silicon, we are able to  deliver more power from a smaller, lighter charger, achieving a power  efficiency of over 93%,” says Anker Innovations’ CEO Steven Yang. “The result  is an ultra-compact, high-performance charging solution that provides the  convenience of fast and simultaneous multi-device charging with maximum  portability,” he adds. “Anker and Navitas have an established relationship that goes back  to 2017,” says Charles Zha, VP & general manager  of Navitas China. “Since we  announced our strategic partnership, engineering teams from both Navitas and  Anker have been co-located at Anker offices, which accelerates the  time-to-market of innovative products such as the Nano II 100W charger.” 