Stabilizing colors for micro-displays The UK’s University of Sheffield has used a  simple micro-cavity structure to create micro light-emitting diodes (μLEDs) with a stable emission wavelength over a  range of injection currents [Guillem Martinez de Arriba et al, ACS Photonics, published  online 27 May 2022]. Such wavelength stability is one of  the key requirements for one of the projected applications of μLEDs: full-color  micro-displays for augmented reality (AR)/virtual reality (VR)  imaging. Indium gallium nitride (InGaN) LEDs suffer  from large wavelength shifts with current for a variety of  reasons, with one of leading causes being the quantum-confined Stark effect (QCSE). The Stark effect refers to a shift in energy in the presence of electric fields.  Applying a bias to the structure changes the electric field and hence shifts  the emission wavelength. In InGaN LEDs charge polarization of the  chemical bonds leads to spontaneous and strain-dependent electric fields in the  material even at zero bias. As the indium content of the light-emitting regions  of such devices increases to enable longer-wavelength LEDs, the InGaN suffers  from increasing strain relative to the base GaN material of its surroundings.  Moving to semi-polar or non-polar orientations of the GaN crystal structure  does not significantly improve color stability. The Sheffield approach to stabilizing the  wavelength was to create a Fabry-Perot optical cavity that selected a stable  wavelength from the μLED  (Figure 1). The cavity was formed between a distributed Bragg reflector (DBR)  and the top interface with the air. The team comments: “This approach provides  a simple solution to resolving the 30-year issue in the field of III-nitride  optoelectronics.”  Figure  1: Schematic of μLEDs  with bottom NP GaN DBR with lattice matching (a); (b) plane-view scanning electron microscope (SEM)  image of regularly arrayed μLED  epiwafer with 3.6μm-diameter  devices at 2μm;  interpitch (c) cross-sectional SEM image of NP-GaN/undoped GaN DBR (inset:  zoomed image); (d) reflectance spectra of NP GaN DBR and FDTD simulated  results; (e) mode spectrum, which is obtained by using the 3D FDTD simulations  to confirm the existence of optical modes. The DBR was formed from the large  refractive index contrast between solid and nanoporous (NP) GaN layers. The  nanoporosity was achieved by an electrochemical (EC) etch process. 