Finwave targeting 5G with 3DGaN FinFET technology Founded in 2012 by researchers at Massachusetts Institute of  Technology (MIT), Cambridge Electronics has rebranded as Finwave  Semiconductor Inc of Waltham, MA, USA (with offices in San Diego, CA  and the Bay Area), as it aims to revolutionize 5G communications with its  three-dimensional gallium nitride (3DGaN) technology, which features a 3D  fin transistor (GaN FinFET) structure. The benefits of 5G networks will never be fully realized without  high-power, high-linearity millimeter-wave (mmWave) power amplifier  technology, says Finwave. Current approaches are throttling 5G due to their  inability to deliver the higher linearity and efficiency needed to solve uplink  issues facing mmWave frequencies (which do not propagate nearly as far as  microwave signals). “Today’s 5G millimeter-wave networks are severely constrained by  the inefficient performance of power amplifiers,” comments Joe Madden, chief analyst  at Mobile Experts. “RF-SOI and CMOS technologies are used today instead of GaN  because of the need to integrate logic circuits with the RF front end, but  this brings significant tradeoffs in power consumption and heat dissipation.  High-performance GaN-on-silicon brings a new option to the table that could  make 5G millimeter-wave more practical.” With 10 times higher breakdown electric field than silicon, high  electron mobility and the ability to operate at higher junction temperature,  GaN is poised to play a significant role for the next decade’s technology  revolutions, says Finwave. At mmWave frequencies, GaN-on-Si amplifiers excel  versus alternative solutions such as silicon CMOS, gallium arsenide (GaAs)  pseudomorphic high-electron-mobility transistors (pHEMTs) or silicon germanium  (SiGe) devices., the firm adds. Finwave’s co-founders professor Tomas Palacios and  Dr Bin Lu first teamed at MIT to invent several of the firm’s  foundational technologies, including a novel type of GaN transistor based on a  FinFET architecture. After being spun out of MIT, the company spent several  years developing the technology further for manufacturing in standard silicon  CMOS fabs. By 2020, Finwave demonstrated the first GaN insulating-gate FinFETs  fabricated with 8” silicon CMOS tools. “As GaN continues to gain market share from silicon, first in 4G  high-power macro base-stations, then in fast chargers for mobile phones  and laptops, we are convinced that the next biggest opportunity for GaN-on-Si  will be 5G infrastructure and handset applications,” says Lu. Finwave’s 3DGaN technology is said to significantly improve  linearity, output power and efficiency in 5G mmWave systems – while  greatly reducing costs for carriers. By leveraging high-volume 8” Si   CMOS, Finwave’s devices benefit from both the cost model and scalability  of silicon technology. “The combination of the outstanding electrostatic  control and linearity of the GaN FinFET structure, with the cost model  of silicon, and the scaling ability of state-of-the-art 8” – and, in the  future, 12” fabs – makes 3DGaN a true game changer,” reckons Palacios. “5G will be a huge engine for economic growth, making this a very  exciting time to be working for a company that is bringing a disruptive,  enabling technology to the market,” says executive chairman & chief  strategy officer Jim Cable Ph.D. “I look forward to continuing to  build our IP portfolio, and our product and customer base.” Beyond 5G, Finwave aims to also bring its technology to artificial intelligence  (AI), cloud computing, and electric vehicles (EVs) and autonomous vehicles  (AVs). Finwave will be at the IEEE International Microwave Symposium (IMS 2022)  in Denver (21-23 June), meeting with partners, industry experts and other  interested parties. 