GaN Systems showcasing power electronics advances at TSMC Technology Symposium On 16 June in Santa Clara, CA, USA at the 2022 North America Technology Symposium and Innovation  Zone of Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co (TSMC), GaN Systems Inc of Ottawa, Ontario, Canada (a fabless developer of  gallium nitride-based power switching semiconductors for power conversion and  control applications) is showcasing its latest GaN power electronics  innovations across consumer, data-center, industrial and automotive markets. Additionally, a GaN Systems charging station will invite attendees  to charge their phones, tablets and laptops and gain real-world experience with  fast-charge GaN AC/DC chargers. CEO Jim Witham provides his perspective on the power market with a  presentation ‘Transforming the World with Smaller,  More Efficient, More Reliable, Cost-Effective Power Electronics’  highlighting the long-standing GaN Systems and TSMC partnership. “GaN power semiconductors are becoming the transistor technology  of choice in many major markets,” says Stephen Coates, general manager of  GaN Systems Asia. “Our ongoing collaboration with TSMC is reinforced by  our joint commitment to innovate and push GaN technology to higher performance  continuously. In partnership with TSMC, we have brought the promise of gallium nitride  from concept to high-volume production.” GaN Systems says that its long-standing partnership with its  primary and long-time foundry partner TSMC has given confidence to global  industry leaders to adopt GaN in the most conservative, high-reliability  markets, including data centers, motor drives, automotive, and HiRel  (space and avionics). The GaN Systems Taiwan campus is within walking  distance from TSMC in the Hsinchu Science Park and has enabled constant  collaboration between the two companies. “For over a decade, our partnership with TSMC has supported our  strategy to deliver the most extensive and highest-performance power  semiconductors,” says Witham. “Together, TSMC and GaN Systems will  continue to fuel new products of importance in our increasingly electrified  world.” 