Optimizing AlInP/AlGaInP laser epilayer uniformity by combining in-situ and ex-situ metrology The combination  of ex-situ wafer mapping and optical in-situ measurements during metal-organic  vapor phase epitaxy (MOVPE) for laser devices constitutes a powerful method for  obtaining maximum layer and die uniformity across the wafer for the production  of devices such as vertical-cavity surface-emitting laser (VCSEL) or  edge-emitting laser (EEL) structures, notes in-situ  metrology system maker LayTec AG of Berlin, Germany. This uniformity  directly increases the yield in subsequent device processing, with a strong  cost impact. Ex-situ mapping measurements by means of white light reflectance  (WLR) and photoluminescence (PL) are well-established methods for ensuring  sufficient uniformity prior to further processing in expensive dicing and  packaging processes. Unfortunately, they do not directly disclose the  root-cause of inhomogeneity that might be observed in these measurements. In contrast,  in-situ measurements by means of emissivity-corrected pyrometry (ECP),  reflectance and curvature directly reveal the effect of certain process  parameter changes like heater or gas flow  settings on the wafer temperature or  layer composition. However, they never cover the entire wafer area and do not  probe the layers under device operating conditions. Therefore, only a  smart combination of both methods constitutes an efficient way for identifying  the parameter most affecting the uniformity and tuning the process towards the  most uniform layer properties across the wafer for cost-effective production,  says LayTec. Dr André Maaßdorf et al at the Ferdinand-Braun-Institut, Leibniz-Institut für Höchstfrequenztechnik (FBH) of Berlin, Germany  established this approach by combining LayTec’s EpiX mapping station and  LayTec’s in-situ measurement tool EpiCurve TT AR VCSEL+  for optimizing the gas flow profile  and the susceptor configuration at their Aixtron AIX 2800 G4 IC2 (12x4”) epitaxial deposition system  for AlInP/AlGaInP edge-emitting lasers. The EpiCurve TT AR VCSEL+ combines the curvature,  three-wavelength reflectance and emissivity-corrected pyrometry (ECP) of an  EpiCurve TT with additional spectral  reflectance capability. The EpiX-Mapper equipped with WLR and PL was deployed  for wafer mapping to deduce  properties like layer thickness and  emission wavelength. At the beginning of the optimization process a significant  deviation in layer thickness (relative deviations ≤ 8%) was observed. Moreover,  in-situ ECP data obtained during deposition revealed that the wafer temperature profile also exhibited a  similar non-uniformity at the edges and further in the wafer center. Based on the  results of the comparison of in-situ and ex-situ results, gradual modification  of the gas foil rotation (GFR) and  absolute gas flow, its distribution  over the gas inlet as well as  modification of recess of the wafer satellite led to an almost perfectly flat  thickness profile. LayTec says that  the results clearly demonstrate the advantage of combining ex-situ wafer  mapping to detect and eliminate wafer non-uniformities. The upcoming  application note will provide more details about this optimization process and  will be available soon on the firm’s website. 