HG collaborating with China Titans Energy on GaN-based fast-charging Hong Kong-based HG Semiconductor Ltd  has entered into a framework agreement with China Titans  Energy Technology Group Co Ltd to commence a three-year strategic cooperation  on fast-charging pile (station) technology  promotion and product sales in mainland China and Hong Kong. HG Semiconductor designs, develops and manufactures LED beads as  well as gallium nitride (GaN) chips, GaN  components and fast-charging products, focusing primarily on China. Leveraging  its expertise in LED manufacturing, HG is accelerating its R&D and expansion  into GaN-related products. In 2021, HG obtained six fast-charging  battery system patents for charging stations, charging conversion systems, charging  modules and fast-charging equipment for electric vehicle  (EV) charging stations. China Titans Energy focuses on developing power electronics and automation control to address the  needs of power transformation, supervision, control, optimization, energy saving and new energy  utilization. In the strategic cooperation, China Titans  Energy will provide support for HG to build fast-charging pile products, run  fast-charging pile services in Hong Kong and  jointly launch fast-charging system solutions. The cooperation provides HG with the opportunity to commercialize  its fast-charging battery products under its own brand in mainland China and Hong Kong,  and accelerate its ramp-up of production capacity. With the growing popularity  of EVs in mainland China and Hong Kong, the development and commercialization of  next-generation charging piles in both places is reckoned to be a promising  business prospect. HG aims to explore establishing a business presence in Hong Kong for fast-charging battery solutions. Both HG and China Titans Energy  intend to leverage the advantage of HG being in cooperation with a statutory  body in Hong Kong, to jointly promote the  development of the Hong Kong smart city and provide upgrades to EVs and charging  facilities in Hong Kong, in order to achieve  the international standard of 400kW direct current  charging, data on the cloud, safety monitoring etc for smart management. The  new energy fast-charging solution is expected  to help to create a new local business model and investment opportunities in Hong Kong, such as constructing a vehicle-to-grid (V2G)  energy network, distributed energy storage and  grid-level direct current electrical  substation. Under China’s Fourteenth Five-Year Plan,  the ‘New-Energy Vehicle Industry Development  Plan for 2021-2035’ has deployed five strategic tasks, including (1) improving  technological innovation capability, (2) constructing a new industrial ecology,  (3) promoting industrial integration development, (4) improving the  infrastructure system, and (5) deepening open cooperation. At the same time,  the development plan explicitly pointed out the necessity of establishing a  technological innovation system with enterprises as the main body,  strengthening infrastructure such as charging and replacing, while the battery management system and batteries are also recognized  as key technologies. Meanwhile, the Hong Kong  government has also announced a roadmap for the popularization of electric vehicles, aiming to achieve zero emissions for all  vehicles by 2050. 