Taiwan Semiconductor Research Institute selects Veeco’s Propel MOCVD system Epitaxial deposition and  process equipment maker Veeco Instruments Inc of Plainview, NY, USA says that its Propel R&D metal-organic  chemical vapor deposition (MOCVD)  system has been selected by the Taiwan Semiconductor Research Institute,  National Applied Research  Laboratories (TSRI, Narlabs) for development and collaboration related to gallium nitride (GaN)-based power and RF devices. The single-wafer Propel platform is  suitable for high-volume manufacturing and 300mm capabilities, as well as  R&D applications. The Propel R&D system has been installed in TSRI’s  Hsinchu laboratory and enables a joint collaborative effort to drive technology  innovation, as well as develop and demonstrate technical capabilities in  emerging GaN markets. The joint effort and collaboration aims to accelerate  wide-bandgap compound semiconductor  technology to high-volume and low-cost applications on 200mm and 300mm  substrates. “Veeco’s Propel R&D system is uniquely  qualified to deliver the performance and flexibility required to conduct  advanced developments of power and RF devices,” comments Dr Chang-Hong Shen, deputy director-general,  Research Fellow at TSRI. “We are excited to have this R&D system operating  in our facility and look forward to support from the Veeco team in the years to  come,” he adds. Veeco’s Propel GaN MOCVD system is  designed specifically for power and RF applications. Featuring a single-wafer  reactor platform, the system deposits GaN films for the production of highly  efficient power and RF devices. The single-wafer reactor is based on Veeco’s  TurboDisc technology including the IsoFlange and SymmHeat technologies, which  provide homogeneous laminar flow and  uniform temperature profile across  the entire wafer. “We now have multiple technologies  installed at TSRI’s facility and we look forward to helping them maximize the  value of our platforms and the opportunity for technology collaboration,” says Adrian  Devasahayam Ph.D., senior VP, product line management. 