LED package market grew 15.4% to $17.65bn in 2021 The global LED market beat market expectations in 2021, growing  15.4% year-on-year to $17.65bn as a slowing pandemic drove the recovery of  various global economic activities, according to TrendForce’s latest LED report. From the revenue ranking of LED makers, most constituents  benefited from the rebound in market demand and showed significant revenue  growth, with the top three manufacturers accounting for 29.5% of the market.  Nichia’s backlight LED business revenue declined due to  increasing organic light-emitting diode (OLED) penetration. However, driven by the rapid  growth of revenue in the flash LED, automotive LED and general lighting markets, overall revenue continued to grow steadily,  ranking Nichia first in the world. Exemplified by stable product quality, excellent light efficiency,  and cost-effectiveness, ams OSRAM is regarded as a first-choice supplier for high-end  automobiles and new energy vehicles  (NEV) worldwide. In addition, benefiting from orders for horticultural lighting  and infrared sensing, its revenue ranks second in the world. Samsung LED also benefited from improved sales in automotive  lighting, horticultural lighting, general lighting and mini-LED backlights, ranking third. Among  these products, Samsung Lighting LEDs are positioned in the high-end market. In high-end  markets such as Europe and the USA, Samsung LED’s market share is gradually expanding due to its  advantages in quality and patents. Notably, Samsung LED’s horticultural  lighting orders also showed rapid growth, driving its whole lighting LED business revenue to rank first in  the world. The remaining top-ten LED makers are rounded out by Seoul Semiconductor, Lumileds, MLS, Everlight,  LITEON, Nationstar, and Hongli. Seoul Semiconductor took advantage of revenue growth from large-size  backlights, automotive LEDs and lighting LEDs. Lumileds also performed well in automotive LEDs and lighting LEDs, and continued to launch a variety  of LEDs for commercial lighting, horticultural lighting and architectural  lighting to seize market share. MLS, Nationstar and Hongli have significantly increased  their revenue in the display LED and lighting LED markets. Everlight and LITEON continue to develop  photocoupler, infrared sensing and consumer electronic indicator LED products. Looking at performance in first-half 2022, TrendForce indicates  that, despite the gradual recovery of demand in Europe and the USA, the  Russian-Ukrainian war continued to drive raw material pricing upward and exacerbate inflation, in turn  suppressing demand in the consumer market. In addition, due to the impact of  the pandemic in China, the industrial chain in some cities has experienced  interruptions and disruption, with the scope to influence enveloping industries  such as electronics and automobiles, inflicting a certain degree of collateral  damage on supply and demand in the LED market. Looking forward to second-half 2022, it is worth observing the  imminent launch of corresponding economic stimulus policies by the Chinese  government, says TrendForce. The global LED market is forecast to maintain a  growth trajectory in 2022, but at a slower rate than the growth performance in  2021. 