OpenLight unveils open silicon photonics platform with integrated lasers Addressing the growing silicon photonics market requirements  for improved performance, power efficiency and reliability, newly launched  company OpenLight of Santa Barbara, CA, USA has introduced what it claims is the  first open silicon photonics platform with integrated lasers. The platform provides increased laser integration and scalability  to accelerate the development of high-performance photonic  integrated circuits (PICs) in applications such as datacom, telecom, light  detection & ranging (LiDAR), healthcare, high-performance computing (HPC),  artificial intelligence (AI), and optical computing. The technology has  passed qualification and reliability tests on the PH18DA production process of  foundry Tower Semiconductor. OpenLight expects the first open  multi-project wafer (MPW) shuttle run on the PH18DA process as well as  400G and 800G reference designs with integrated lasers to be available in  the summer. “OpenLight’s technology will transform the silicon photonics  industry,” believes Dr Marco Racanelli, senior VP &  general manager of Tower Semiconductor’s Analog business unit.  “Providing an open silicon photonics platform with integrated lasers that  has been qualified on Tower’s process will help mutual customers innovate and  fuel the next generation of silicon photonics designs at scale.” As the optics industry advances, a major challenge for  silicon photonics has been laser integration and the high cost of adding  discrete lasers, including the manufacturing, assembly and alignment of those  lasers. This becomes more important as the number of laser channels and the  overall bandwidth increases. By processing the indium phosphide (InP)  materials directly on the silicon photonics wafer, the PH18DA platform  reduces the cost and time of adding lasers, enabling volume scalability and  improved power efficiency. In addition, monolithically integrated lasers  improve overall reliability and simplify packaging. “OpenLight is paving the way for the new generation of  silicon photonics by enabling the scalable integration of lasers in  pluggable and co-packaged optics,” comments Aveek Sarkar,  VP of engineering at Synopsys Inc of Mountain  View, CA, USA. “The combination of Synopsys’ unified electronic and  photonic design solution and OpenLight’s innovative silicon photonics  platform will significantly accelerate the development of photonics ICs,” he  believes. The open platform includes integrated lasers,  optical amplifiers, modulators, photodetectors, and other key photonic  components to form a complete solution for low-power, high-performance  photonics ICs. In addition, OpenLight offers select PIC designs and design  services to accelerate time-to-market. OpenLight’s executive team is led by chief operating officer Dr Thomas Mader, VP of business development &  strategy Dr Daniel Sparacin, and VP of  engineering Dr Volkan Kaman. “The rapidly growing silicon photonics market is being driven by  the relentless demand for higher bandwidth needed to analyze, store and move  complex data,” notes Mader. “OpenLight’s open  silicon photonics platform with integrated lasers enables scaling from one  laser to hundreds, or even thousands of lasers per PIC, all monolithically  integrated at the wafer level,” he adds. “With our platform, companies can  enter emerging markets faster, accelerate new applications and completely  change the way their teams build photonic systems of tomorrow.” 