Smartphone production volume falls 12.8% to 310 million in Q1 due to amplified off-season effect The multiplicative effect of the traditional off-season further  weakened smartphone production performance in first-quarter 2022, with global  output only reaching 310 million units, down 12.8% quarter-on-quarter, according  to market research firm TrendForce. Compared with the same period last  year, the strategic planning adopted by smartphone brands in response to  Huawei’s market share collapse is quite different, with annual decline in  production as high as 10.1%. Looking to Q2/2022, in the face of rising inflation intensified by  the Russian-Ukrainian war and the direct impact of China’s lockdowns, the  momentum of consumption continues to weaken. According to TrendForce's current  observations, global smartphone production volume in Q2/2022 is forecast at  about 309 million units, which is roughly on par with Q1, but the  lingering possibility of a subsequent downgrade this quarter cannot be ruled  out. Benefiting from an easing of 4G low-end processor chip supply  and the launch of its new Galaxy S22, Samsung's production volume in  Q1/2022 increased to 73.8 million units, ranking first in the world.  Looking at developments in Q2, since Samsung’s central production sites are  located in Vietnam and India and its market share in China is merely 1%, it is  unruffled by the turmoil in the supply chain and domestic demand stemming  from China’s dynamic zero-COVID policy. However, the impact of the  Russian-Ukrainian war festers in Q2. Samsung was originally the leading  smartphone brand in Russia but in March it joined sanctions against the country  and completely suspended product shipments. Coupled with rising inflation,  Samsun’s production performance in Q2 will be dampened and is expected to  decline compared with Q1.  Apple’s iPhone 13 series continued to sell well, and the new  SE3 helped Apple’s production volume reach 60 million units in Q1,  achieving excellence performance compared with the same period last year, with  an annual growth of rate 11.1%. This was due mainly to cannibalizing Huawei’s  former high-end model orders while making up for losses incurred from the  suspension of mobile phone sales in Russia in response to the  Russia-Ukraine war. The Chinese lockdowns adversely affected the operation  performance of foundries and the supply chain. Fortunately, during Q2 Apple  was in a transition period between new and old models and, since Q2 normally  posts the lowest production performance in the year, any collateral impact was  relatively limited. The iPhone 14 series to be launched by Apple in second-half  2022 will feature four new models. Most notably and unlike prior offerings,  only the latest processors are employed in the Pro series. In addition to  taking into account terminal pricing strategy, this can also highlight  differences in market positioning. As rising inflation changes consumer  behavior, this type of product positioning is expected to attract more buyers. The Chinese smartphone market had begun showing obvious signs of  weakness since second-half 2021, leading to more cautious quarterly production  planning from Xiaomi (including Redmi, POCO, Black Shark), OPPO (including  Realme, OnePlus), and Vivo (including iQoo), with Q1/2022 production volume  coming in at 44.5 million, 40.5 million and 23.5 million units,  respectively. Due to the high overlap between positioning and product planning  of these three brands in the sales market, factors such as delayed delivery of  4G low-end processor chips at the beginning of the quarter and sluggish sales  in the Chinese market will directly affect production performance. OPPO and  Vivo exhibited a more significant quarterly decline due to their large market  share in China. At the same time, the rapid rise of Honor, coupled with its  strategy of focusing on the Chinese market as its primary sales foundation,  will also threaten Xiaomi, OPPO and Vivo, which likewise focus on the domestic  demand market in China. TrendForce has also observed the rapid rise of Honor’s  market share and forecasts its market share in China will surpass that of  Xiaomi and close in on OPPO and Vivo in 2022. According to TrendForce, looking at performance in 2022 as a  whole, first-half 2022 was mainly influenced by China’s lockdowns and the  Russian-Ukrainian war, and second-half 2022 will be influenced by the inflation  crisis, with annual production volume coming in at about 1.333 billion  units. However, if China continues its dynamic zero-COVID policy into Q3/2022,  combined with the one-two punch of inflation and energy shortages, the global  smartphone market may face further downward revision. Despite the continuous adjustment of production targets, 5G mobile phones  continue growing steadily. Since being released in 2019, 5G mobile phones  have benefited from the Chinese government’s diligent promotion of commercial  transformation. In 2021, 5G’s global market share reached 38%. The subsequent  growth momentum of 5G mobile phones will be driven by markets outside of  China. With the steady increase in global 5G base-station coverage, the global  market share of 5G mobile phones is forecast to reach 50% in 2022, or  about 661 million units, of which Apple possesses the lion’s share, says TrendForce. 