Source Photonics ships 2 millionth 28G EML laser chip Source Photonics Inc of West Hills, CA,  USA (which provides optical connectivity products for data centers, metro and  access networks) says that it  has now shipped more than 2 million  28G high-speed EML laser chips for  data centers and optical  transmission applications. Source Photonics  began production shipments of 28G EMLs (externally modulated  lasers) with its 10km QSFP28 100G LR4 products in first-quarter 2020,  after successful introduction and qualification by many of the firm’s leading  customers and partners throughout 2019. Source Photonics is a first-to-market and first-to-scale provider  of high-performance 100G QSFP28 LR4 transceivers using 28G EML laser chips, enabling data centers to increase their bit rate and lower their overall power consumption. The 28G EML chip is now  widely used in many more NRZ and PAM4-based platforms, such as 400G LR8/ER8,  100G ER4/ZR4, 200G LR4/ER4 and 50G LR/ER etc. Source Photonics says that the operational simplicity and reliability  combined with the economic value proposition  continues to drive the adoption of EML solutions in the market place. With over  2 million EMLs shipped to the field  with zero field returns to date, the firm is investing in leading-edge  technology for the transition to 800G/1.6T direct detection. The expected strong growth of data traffic in hyperscale data centers and 5G wireless networks is  driving increasing requirements for volume, reliability, cost and speed in EML  laser chips. “Today’s announcement  underlines our commitment and leadership in large-scale production capacity of  high-speed EML chip and transceiver products,” says CEO John Wang. “Vertical  integration remains Source Photonics’  core competitiveness. More than 90% transceiver products transition to use our  own optics chips now, including the newest 800G products under pre-production,”  he adds. “Strong demand for 100/400G optics in mega data centers has been making headlines over  the last three years, attracting  many new suppliers and technologies,” comments Vladimir Kozlov, CEO &  founder of LightCounting Market Research.  “Source Photonics remains uniquely  positioned to deliver its portfolio of 100G QSFP28 LR4  and higher-performance transceiver products by vertical integration, which  allows for faster deployment of next-generation 100/400GbE optical solutions in  enterprise, data-center and service provider  networks.” 