University of Southern California’s MOSIS Service announces MoU with WIN for III-V MMIC manufacturing The MOSIS Service of the Information Sciences  Institute, University of Southern California  (USC) in Los Angeles has announced a  memorandum of understanding (MoU) to accelerate the development of gallium arsenide (GaAs) and gallium nitride (GaN) monolithic microwave  integrated circuits (MMICs) using  the process technologies of WIN Semiconductors Corp  of Taoyuan City, Taiwan – the largest pure-play compound semiconductor  wafer foundry. Project flows for customers to utilize the MOSIS Service  to fabricate MMICs at WIN Semiconductors  will be released. The collaboration combines the MOSIS semiconductor design support  and manufacturing expertise, including multi-project wafer (MPW) runs, and WIN’s manufacturing technologies for  high-speed devices utilizing III-V compound semiconductors  including GaAs and GaN, and prototype packaging technologies. With this  collaboration, universities, research organizations and industry organizations  will have access to an extensive portfolio of heterojunction bipolar transistor (HBT), pseudomorphic  high-electron-mobility transistor  (pHEMT) and RF GaN HEMT technology platforms to develop new high-performance  MMIC designs. The collaboration lays the foundation for reliable and efficient  design and prototyping flows through the MPW projects with The MOSIS Service  and WIN Semiconductors. “This is a new and important capability for The MOSIS Service to  provide access and support to non-silicon wafer fabrication processes with the  microelectronics community,” says Craig Knoblock, executive director of Information Sciences Institute. “For the first time,  the US Government, R&D laboratories, companies and academia will have  access to WIN Semiconductors’ portfolio of III-V compound semiconductor processes with MOSIS’  legacy design and manufacturing service capabilities… This collaboration will  significantly advance microelectronics R&D and accelerate the development  of advanced GaAs and GaN MMICs,” he believes. “WIN Semiconductors is the world leader in the pure-play compound semiconductor foundry space and offers a  comprehensive portfolio of III-V technologies,” comments Lifu Chang, director  of The MOSIS Service. “These III-V foundry technologies require a  higher level of design-technology interplay compared to silicon technologies.  Our MOSIS experience provides a platform for tightly coupled and efficient  design and manufacturing flows, to support universities and design companies  interested in high-performance front-end applications,” he adds. “There are serious concerns with the access to wide varieties of  semiconductor processes and design support for universities and corporations in  the US, in the context of worldwide competition and wafer supply  constraints,” notes Knoblock. “The MOSIS Service is positioned to contribute to  the resolution. The addition of GaAs and GaN technologies is necessary, and we  will push hard in this direction.” “The collaboration between WIN Semiconductors and The MOSIS Service  creates a new platform for many new users to access WIN’s market-leading  compound semiconductor technologies,” says WIN’s senior VP of  technology & strategic business development David Danzilio. “We are  building a robust project framework with MOSIS’ team. I expect to attract and  enable many customers that have been interested but need the level of technical  support that MOSIS can provide.” The WIN-MOSIS collaboration is focused on the development of new  MMICs, and the technologies included in the program support amplifier designs  and integrated front-ends operating from 100MHz to 175GHz. These technology  platforms incorporate various integration options including multiple metal  layers, logic interfaces, compact ESD protection, copper-pilar bumps and  through-chip RF transitions. WIN’s proven GaAs and GaN technologies support  large-scale chip manufacturing, delivering billions of MMICs annually to WIN’s  customers. The collaboration will also provide access to prototype QFN  packaging technologies from WIN. 