Fraunhofer ISE raises solar cell efficiency record from 46.1% to 47.6% At the 2nd  International tandemPV Workshop in Freiburg, Germany (30 May-1 June), Freiburg-based  Fraunhofer Institute for Solar Energy Systems ISE has reported that, by using a new anti-reflection  coating, it has increased the solar energy conversion efficiency of the best four-junction solar cell to date from 46.1% to 47.6% at a light  concentration of 665 suns. For the last two years, Fraunhofer ISE has been  working on the project ‘50 Percent’, which - funded by the German Federal  Ministry for Economic Affairs and Climate Action BMWK - aims to develop the  first solar cell with efficiency of 50%. To achieve this, each individual  layer of the complex multi-junction solar cell has undergone further  optimization. Improvements in the process technology have been incorporated for  metal contacts and anti-reflection layers. The result was achieved only one year after the  opening of Fraunhofer ISE’s new Center for High Efficiency Solar Cells,  says Dr Frank Dimroth, department head of III-V Photovoltaics and  Concentrator Technology at Fraunhofer ISE. “In our research, we aim to  make concentrating photovoltaics even more efficient and competitive, as we  believe that this is the most sustainable form of renewable electricity  generation.” Multi-junction solar cells made of III-V compound  semiconductors have always been among the most efficient solar cells, and  they reach their highest potential when the incoming sunlight is concentrated  by lenses onto solar cell devices of just a few square millimeters in  size.  Picture: Efficiency of the new four-junction  solar cell  increases with concentration up to 665 suns, reaching a record 47.6%  conversion efficiency. The layer structure of the new solar cell was  developed in 2016 together with the French company Soitec Inc, which  designs and manufactures semiconductor materials. The upper tandem solar cell  is made of gallium indium phosphide (GaInP) and aluminum gallium arsenide  (AlGaAs), which was bonded by Soitec onto a lower tandem solar cell made  of gallium indium arsenide phosphide (GaInAsP) and gallium indium arsenide  (GaInAs). Now, in Fraunhofer ISE’s Center for High Efficiency  Solar Cells, an improved contact layer and a four-layer anti-reflection  coating have been applied to the tandem cell structure. These measures reduce  the resistance losses and the reflection on the front side of the cell, which  is spectrally sensitive within a broad wavelength range of 300-1780nm.  Conventional solar cells made of silicon absorb sunlight only up to 1200nm  and thus do not require such a broadband anti-reflection coating.  Picture: Quantum efficiency of the new  four-junction solar cell. The top sub-cell made of GaInP absorbs  short-wave sunlight in the visible spectral range. Infrared light is converted  in the sub-cells beneath, which are made of AlGaAs, GaInAsP and GaInAs  respectively. “Possible applications of such highly efficient  tandem solar cells include concentrator photovoltaic systems, which  contribute to efficient power generation in sun-rich countries,” says professor  Stefan Glunz, division director of Photovoltaics Research at Fraunhofer ISE.  “With tandem photovoltaics, it is possible to leave the limitations of  single-junction solar cells behind and ultimately achieve a reduction in solar power  costs,” he adds. 