GlobalFoundries unveils GF Labs to accelerate technology innovation At its annual  GF Technology Summit (GTS) in San Jose, CA, GlobalFoundries of Malta, NY, USA (which has  operations in Singapore, Germany and the USA) has announced the launch  of GF Labs, a new program that aims to extend the development horizon of  its semiconductor technology and broaden its portfolio of feature-rich  solutions. GF Labs will focus on advancing new technology and long-term  roadmap differentiation with the aim of enabling GF customers to develop  innovative products and accelerate their time-to-market. Targeted  technology megatrends include the Internet of Things (IoT), 5G, 6G, cloud computing,  artificial intelligence (AI), quantum computing and next-generation  automotive, all of which will propel semiconductor market revenue to more than  $1.3 trillion by the end of the decade, forecasts International Business  Strategies. GF has a track  record of innovating materials such as FD-SOI (fully depleted  silicon-on-insulator) on 22FDX (22nm  fully depleted silicon-on-insulator), and novel device  architectures that enabled the launch in March of GF Fotonix, the firm’s  next-generation silicon photonics platform. GF Labs  is intended to expand and accelerate this momentum by creating an open  framework of internal and external R&D initiatives that deliver a pipeline  of market-driven process technology solutions for future data-centric, connected,  intelligent and secure applications. “Fostering  semiconductor innovation is critical to delivering a differentiated technology  portfolio that will continue to fuel emerging markets,” says Gregg Bartlett, GF’s  senior VP of technology, engineering and quality. “Our focus is on making  sure we’re always developing the latest technologies that provide meaningful  differentiation for our customers, not just in the near-term but far into the  next decade.” GF has a track  record of building partnerships with startup innovators, industry consortia,  material suppliers, universities and government entities worldwide. Leveraging  GF’s patent portfolio and technical expertise in digital, analog, mixed-signal,  RF and embedded memory, GF Labs will harvest capabilities from a broad  research platform including the Interuniversity Microelectronics Centre  (IMEC) in Belgium, Fraunhofer in Germany, Defense Advanced Research  Projects Agency (DARPA) in the USA, and the Institute for Microelectronics in  Singapore, along with a broad network of university partnerships. R&D within  GF Labs is underway with a range of technology capabilities and solutions  already in development such as radio frequency silicon-on-insulator  (RFSOI) and silicon-germanium (SiGe). GF will continue to invest to expand and  develop tailored solutions, with GF Labs serving as the R&D engine  accelerating solutions based on wide-bandgap semiconductors that go beyond the  traditional approach of shrinking transistors. Additional program details and partners  will be announced in second-half 2022. “IQE’s  collaboration with GF on gallium nitride (GaN) accelerates the development  of differentiated technology platforms that enable smart mobile devices,  wireless infrastructure, power electronics and next-generation displays,”  comments Americo  Lemos, CEO of epiwafer and substrate  maker IQE plc of Cardiff,  UK. “Micledi has  developed a unique and innovative solution for micro-LED arrays,” says Soeren Steudel, chief technology officer of Micledi  Microdisplays. “Our technology is based on an innovative  combination of III/V materials processing, 3D integration and 300mm  silicon-based processing combined with a proprietary ASIC to provide a  self-contained, compact monolithic AR [augmented reality] display with  high image quality and power efficiency. Our partnership with GF is  enabling future AR devices and revolutionizing how digital information is  delivered to consumers,” he adds. “SOITEC and  GF’s close collaboration on state-of-the-art RFSOI and FD-SOI substrate development  continues to set the pace for the introduction of market-leading solutions for  each generation of mobile connectivity standards,” reckons SOITEC’s chief operating officer Bernard Asper. “GF  technologies made 5G mm-wave possible with 45RSOI and 22FDX processes first  used by universities and then by most companies in 5G and SATCOM. It is now  taking steps to establish a leadership position in 6G,” remarks Gabriel M. Rebeiz Ph.D., Distinguished  Professor and the Wireless Communications Industry Endowed Chair at the  University of California, San Diego (UCSD). “We’ve been  collaborating on a broad set of high-risk, high-payoff research projects  leveraging the unparalleled benefits of FD-SOI, RF-SOI and SiGe technology with  demonstrated phased-arrays and transceivers up to 180GHz and, together, we are  pushing the limits,” he adds. “GF has been a great partner, with an accurate  design kit at greater than 100GHz. They also support innovative work and  enable the successful demonstration of complex 6G systems.” 