AlN doping for future deep UV/power tech Georgia Institute of Technology in the USA  has reported “state-of-the-art” n-type doping of aluminium nitride (AlN) and PN  AlN homojunction diodes [Habib Ahmad  et al, J. Appl. Phys., v131, p175701, 2022]. The researchers comment: “This study  demonstrates near-future exciting promise for AlN-based DUV [deep-ultraviolet] optical  emitters and detectors, high-power/voltage/temperature, and high-frequency  switching devices capable of operation in extreme radiation and heat  environments.” Up to now AlN’s extreme 6.1eV bandgap has  led to its being used mainly in electrically insulating regions. A particularly  attractive quality is a high thermal conductivity of 319W/mK, relative to  materials such as gallium oxide (27W/mK). Also, AlN has a significantly higher  critical breakdown electric field of 15MV/cm, compared with 9MV/cm for gallium  oxide, 4.9MV/cm for gallium nitride, and 3.1MV/cm for silicon carbide. The Georgia work has improved the  electrical conductivity of AlN by doping with beryllium (Be) for p-AlN, based  on the group’s prior work, and silicon (Si) for n-AlN. The challenge of AlN:Si doping includes  problems such as electrons being trapped at Al vacancies, threading  dislocations, and ‘DX centers’. The last problem involves creating a deep state  via electron capture. In the case of silicon, a secondary electron is captured,  causing a geometric rearrangement with the c-axis N-bond breaking and the three  other basal N-bonds shortening by 2% (Figure 1).  Figure  1: DX center formation of Si by transitioning to deep state compensating n-type  AlN with broken N-bond in c-direction (vertical). The researchers add: “Complicating issues,  the Al-vacancy forms a complex with Si resulting in self-compensation of the  doping at high Si doping levels.” The team used metal modulated epitaxy  (MME), a cyclic molecular beam epitaxy (MBE) variant, to reduce threading  dislocation and Al vacancy formation. “MME compensates for the lower growth  temperature with extremely metal-rich surface chemistry that virtually  eliminates the harmful Al vacancies and allows easier surface bond breakage  and, thus, long surface adatom diffusion lengths,” they write. A denser crystal  also makes geometric rearrangements for creating DX centers less likely. The researchers conclude: “The evidence of  six orders of magnitude rectification with the proper turn-on voltage of ~6V for a 6.1eV AlN  semiconductor offers ultimate confidence that the pioneering doping results  shown are in fact real.” The MME (Table 1) was performed on 4μm-thick hydride vapor phase  epitaxy (HVPE) AlN on sapphire templates (MSE Supplies) using plasma-assisted  molecular beam epitaxy (PAMBE) equipment (Riber 32). The templates were backed  with tantalum to promote uniform heating during growth. The metalized wafers  were diced into 1cmx1cm squares. Much care was taken to remove contaminants  before the growth. Table  1: Description of MME p-type AlN:Be and n-type AlN:Si films. 