Nexperia and KYOCERA AVX partner on GaN automotive power modules Nexperia B.V.  of Nijmegen, the Netherlands (a subsidiary of Wingtech  Technology Co Ltd) has announced a partnership covering  gallium nitride (GaN) automotive power modules with KYOCERA AVX  Components (Salzburg) GmbH, which designs, develops, manufactures and  supplies electronic components for the automotive industry. The agreement is  the next step in the long-lasting relationship between the two companies and  will focus on power components with the aim of jointly developing GaN  applications for electric vehicles (EV). As passenger  vehicles become increasingly electrified, the demand for  power semiconductors to provide efficient power conversion at  increasingly higher power densities is also growing. High-voltage  power GaN field-effect transistors (FETs), when combined with  innovative packaging technologies, can address the requirements for better  efficiency, higher power density and reduced system cost, say the  firms. GaN power devices not only offer superior performance in these  applications but now also provide the reliability, robustness and  manufacturability expected of a mainstream technology serving a broad range of  applications across multiple market segments. Nexperia manufactures GaN devices  in its own facilities using mature mass-production techniques that have been  proven to meet the reliability requirements for devices to achieve AEC-Q101  certification. “We are very  pleased to finally turn our successful and long-lasting relationship into a  real partnership to strengthen KYOCERA AVX’s strategy to provide  high-quality automotive-compliant modules,” comments Thomas Rinschede,  deputy VP Sensing and Control Division at KYOCERA AVX Components  (Salzburg). “Nexperia is a trusted and reliable partner who can deliver  high-performance GaN and has shown a strong record in producing devices for the  automotive market,” he adds. “GaN devices  bring many benefits to EV applications including increased power density,  improved efficiency and lower overall system cost,” notes Carlos Castro,  VP & general manager GaN at Nexperia. “However, optimized packaging  technology is required in order to more fully realize the benefits of GaN  devices, especially in high-power systems,” he adds. “Nexperia recognizes the  advanced technology offering and leading position which KYOCERA AVX holds  in the automotive industry and believes that this joint collaboration in the  development of GaN automotive power modules will enable both companies to  deliver superior EV power systems solutions.” 