Siemens collaborates with GlobalFoundries to provide silicon photonics design verification Siemens Digital Industries Software of  Plano, TX, USA says that its Calibre nmPlatform now enables designers to  leverage the newest silicon photonics platform of GlobalFoundries (GF) of Malta, NY, USA (which has operations  in Singapore, Germany and the USA). GF’s next-generation, monolithic  platform GF Fotonix is the first in the industry to combine its  differentiated 300mm photonics and RF-CMOS features on a silicon wafer,  delivering best-in-class performance at scale. The GF Fotonix process design  kits (PDKs) include Siemens’ Calibre nmDRC software for design rule  checking (DRC) and Calibre nmLVS software for layout versus schematic  (LVS) verification. Both Calibre tools are fully certified by GF, so mutual  customers designing for the new GF Fotonix platform can continue to use  the Calibre nmPlatform for silicon photonic devices as they have used for  previous offerings. “Siemens EDA is pleased to extend our  mutual solution with GF into the emerging silicon photonics market,” says  Michael Buehler-Garcia, VP of Calibre Design Solutions product management.  “While silicon photonic designs and their subsequent inclusion into  multi-die offerings introduce new verification complexities, these complexities  are addressed in the Calibre silicon photonics design kits, which  require no change to how designers traditionally use Calibre.” GF Fotonix consolidates complex  processes that were previously distributed across multiple chips onto a single  chip by combining a photonic system, radio frequency (RF) components and  high-performance complementary metal–oxide–semiconductor (CMOS) logic on just  one silicon chip. “Our collaboration with Siemens EDA is  another example of how GF is partnering with industry leaders to deliver  innovative, time-to-market solutions for our customers,” says Mike Cadigan,  GF’s senior VP for Customer Design Enablement. “The combination of  Siemens’ Calibre tools, for both design verification and post tape-out  operation, with the GF Fotonix solution, can help designers efficiently create  the powerful, flexible and power-efficient solutions required in today’s  next-generation data-center, computing and sensing applications.”  Picture:       Siemens' Calibre nmPlatform now enables designers to leverage the  newest GlobalFoundries silicon photonics platform. Silicon photonics enables companies to  bring fiber optics directly into integrated circuits. However,  silicon photonic devices contain curved layouts, rather than the linear  Manhattan grid features found in traditional CMOS designs. Applying  traditional CMOS DRC to silicon photonic layouts yields numerous false positive  errors that design teams must often spend weeks tracking down. To address this  challenge, GF leverages Siemens’ Calibre eqDRC software, which allows rule  checks to use equations in place of, or in addition to, linear measurements.  This helps enable more accurate results, leading to significantly fewer errors,  so design teams can spend far less time and fewer resources debugging their  designs. Similarly, the curvilinear nature of  photonic structures, together with the general lack of source netlists for  optics, poses a challenge when performing LVS checking. Traditional IC LVS  technology extracts physical measurements from well-understood electronic  structures and compares them to the intended corresponding elements in the  source netlist. However, with curved structures it is difficult, if not  impossible, to discern where one structure begins and another ends. With the  new GF Fotonix PDK with Calibre LVS, this obstacle is resolved with the use of  text and marker layers to discern regions of interest. Silicon photonic devices are often  implemented in an individual die on a specific process node, then stacked and  packaged with the rest of design components in multiple dies using advanced  heterogeneous packaging technologies. By using the complete core Calibre  offering, total verification cycle times can be greatly reduced. 