Cubic-phase III-nitride LEDs overcome efficiency droop Annually, lighting accounts for 15% of global electricity  consumption and 5% of worldwide greenhouse-gas emissions. In the USA alone, the  transition to solid-state lighting has already reduced lighting-related energy  needs and greenhouse-gas emissions by about 25% with respect to non-solid-state  lighting (SSL). However, the average household energy consumption for lighting is set to triple over the next 50 years due to population growth and an increase in housing  size. Accelerating the transition to energy-efficient lighting is one of the  most significant initiatives to improve the global economy and climate  conditions. If the US Department of Energy’s Solid-State Lighting Program goals  are met by 2035, SSL will further reduce lighting-related energy needs and  greenhouse-gas emissions by about 55%, reducing the US energy bill by ~$50bn  (equal to about a 5% reduction in the total primary energy budget of the USA). However, the performance of LED-based SSL is far below its  theoretical limit because conventional, hexagonal (h)-phase indium gallium aluminium nitride  (InGaAlN) multi-quantum well (MQW) LEDs suffer from efficiency  rollover under high current density, i.e. efficiency droop. This issue imposes a trade-off between light output  power, efficiency, and cost. Numerous mechanisms, such as Auger recombination, carrier leakage, internal polarization, and, last but not least,  phase-space filling have been proposed to explain the efficiency droop in  conventional h-LEDs, yet none of them explains the efficiency droop alone. Picture: Normalized  internal quantum efficiency (IQE) (left y-axis) and efficiency droop (right y-axis) as a function of current  density. Now, Yi-Chia Tsai,  Can Bayram, and Jean-Pierre Leburton at the  University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign (UIUC) have provided a  detailed computational analysis of the various factors influencing the internal  quantum efficiency (IQE) of InGaAlN MQW-based LEDs  as a function of design and crystallographic structure (‘Interplay between  Auger recombination, Carrier Leakage, and Polarization in InGaAlN Multiple-Quantum-Well  Light-Emitting Diodes’, J. Appl. Phys.  131, 193102 (2022)). Their analysis shows that the primary factor for IQE  degradation and the so-called ‘efficiency droop’  is the internal polarization arising in strained h-LEDs, which enhances either Auger recombination or carrier leakage  from the QWs. As both effects cannot be averted by modifying the device design  alone, their work indicates that switching to novel, cubic (c)-phase LEDs would  strongly enhance the IQE peak over 80%, while quenching the efficiency droop to  just a few percent. 