Rio Tinto starts tellurium production at Kennecott Rio Tinto has started producing tellurium  at its Kennecott copper operation in Utah, becoming one of only two US  producers of the mineral. Tellurium is listed as a critical mineral by the US  Government due to its importance to the economy and energy security. The tellurium will be refined in North America by specialty  semiconductors and performance materials producer 5N Plus Inc of Montreal, Québec, Canada under a  commercial agreement between 5N Plus and Rio Tinto. The refined  tellurium will primarily be supplied to cadmium telluride (CdTe) thin‐film photovoltaic (PV) module  maker First Solar Inc of Tempe, AZ, USA (the only American  company among the world’s ten largest solar manufacturers) under an existing  supply contract between 5N Plus and First Solar. 5N Plus will  also use the tellurium to manufacture ultra-high purity semiconductor materials  at its facility in St. George, Utah, to serve the security and medical imaging  markets. About 20 tons of tellurium will be produced annually through  a new $2.9m circuit built at the Kennecott refinery. The material is recovered  from by-product streams generated during the copper refining process, reducing  the amount of waste that needs to be treated and discarded as mine tailings. “We are proud to deliver a new domestic supply of tellurium to  support the manufacturing of solar panels and other critical equipment here in  the United States,” says Rio Tinto Copper chief operating officer  Clayton Walker. “About 90% of the world’s tellurium resource is contained in  copper ore and no other metal has more critical mineral by-products than  copper. The Kennecott team is constantly looking for ways to extract new  critical minerals to meet emerging demand for the clean energy transition,”  he adds. Tellurium is one of ten metals and products recovered from ore  extracted at Kennecott, which produces nearly 15% of US copper. Rio Tinto is partnering with the US Department of Energy’s  Critical Materials Institute (CMI) to discover further ways to  economically recover critical minerals such as tellurium and lithium. The firm  is also investing in new facilities to extract battery-grade lithium from waste  rock at its Boron, California mine site and high-quality scandium oxide  from waste streams at its metallurgical complex in Sorel-Tracy, Quebec. First Solar is expanding its US manufacturing capacity by 3.3GW  annually, by building its third American manufacturing facility in Lake Township,  Ohio. When fully operational, the new facility will scale the firm’s Northwest Ohio  footprint to a total annual capacity of 6GW (making it the largest fully  vertically integrated solar manufacturing complex outside of China, it is  believed). See related item: 5N Plus secures multi-year supply contracts with First Solar 