Navitas’ revenue grows by 8.2% in Q1 For first-quarter 2022, gallium nitride (GaN) power IC  firm Navitas Semiconductor Corp has reported revenue of $6.74m, up 8.2% on  $7.3m last quarter and 27% on $5.3m a year ago. However, gross margin (on a non-GAAP basis) has fallen further,  from 45.5% a year ago and 44.3% last quarter to 44%, while operating expenses  have risen further, from $7.8m a year ago and $10.1m last quarter to $12.5m. Net loss was $9.6m ($0.08 per share), cut from ($0.27 per share) a  year ago but up from $6.95m ($0.07 per share)  last quarter. Founded in 2014, Navitas introduced what it claimed to be the  first commercial GaN power integrated circuits. Its proprietary GaNFast power  ICs monolithically integrate GaN power field-effect transistors (FETs) and GaN  drive plus sensing, control and protection circuits in a single SMT package to  enable faster charging, higher power density and greater energy savings for  mobile, consumer, enterprise, eMobility and new energy markets. Navitas says that it is in mass production with nine of the top 10  mobile OEMs (with 10 of 10 targeted by the end of 2022). New wins for  mobile-phone chargers include: Laptop wins include: “We have reinforced our number-one position in mobile fast and  ultra-fast chargers – reaching over 50 million units shipped with  zero reported GaN-related field failures – and we are on track with GaN,  system R&D and customer developments for our expansion into broader  consumer, data-center, solar and electric vehicle (EV) markets,” says CEO  & co-founder Gene Sheridan. Navitas’ highest-power GaN power IC (the NV6169) was launched  at Power, Control and Intelligent Motion (PCIM) Europe 2022 in Nuremberg,  Germany (10–12 May) with 50%  more power capability for TV, game console and some data-center applications.  Additional high-power GaNFast ICs are being sampled, with significant  customer developments underway at data-center, solar and electric vehicle  (EV) customers. In March, based on field reliability and the results of extensive  life testing, Navitas announced the industry’s first 20-year limited  warranty, strengthening its position to expand into higher-power and  higher-reliability markets. In January, Navitas published what was claimed to be the  wide-bandgap industry’s first sustainability report that comprehensively  quantifies the positive impact of GaN power semiconductors on climate change  based on global standards. Now, Navitas has announced that it is the first semiconductor  company worldwide to achieve CarbonNeutral status, as accredited by third-party  industry-reference Natural Capital Partners. For second-quarter 2022, Navitas expects revenue to grow to $8-9m.  This guidance factors in some short-term impact from China COVID-related  shutdown softness in the supply chain, and in demand for smartphones,  offset partially by stronger sales from new customers in other regions. Despite the slightly lower-than-expected Q2 revenue, this will be offset  by subsequent accelerated customer wins and regional expansion so Navitas still  expects full-year revenue to double from 2021 to 2022. 