Aixtron to supply CCS 3x2 MOCVD system to Boise State University Deposition equipment maker Aixtron SE of  Herzogenrath, near Aachen, Germany says that subsidiary Aixtron Ltd will  deliver a deposition system from their Close Coupled Showerhead metal-organic chemical vapor  deposition (CCS MOCVD) product range for compound semiconductor materials to the Boise  State University. The CCS 3x2 is an essential part of an infrastructure  expansion awarded to Boise State University, Idaho. With a capacity of 3x2” wafers,  the CCS 3x2 system being delivered  to Boise’s Micron  Center for Materials Research will have a maximum operating  temperature of 1400°C, which will enable  the deposition of graphene and hexagonal boron nitride (hBN) on sapphire as well as novel structures for gallium nitride (GaN)-based ultraviolet  light-emitting diodes (UV LEDs). Equipped with a wide variety of  metal-organic and gas channels, the system will enable Boise State University  to deposit the most advanced 2D materials.  In addition, the system includes Aixtron’s proprietary  ARGUS and EPISON in-situ metrology technologies, which are proven key enablers  for the uniform, repeatable wafer-scale growth of 2D materials. With help of the CCS 3x2,  Boise State aims to enable up-to-date manufacturing of advanced flexible hybrid  electronics using 2D-3D heterostructures. The goal is to use the Aixtron system to research and overcome the  challenges of large-scale synthesis and integration of 2D materials into full semiconductor device  process flows. “The Aixtron system is a  major part of our research infrastructure expansion,” says David Estrada, Boise State’s associate director for the Center for Advanced Energy Studies and  associate professor in the Micron  School of Materials Science and Engineering. “The Aixtron  Close Coupled Showerhead metal-organic vapor phase epitaxy system is capable of  wafer-scale growth of atomically thin  semiconductor materials as well as more traditional semiconductor films.” The CCS 3x2 tool is  expected to be the only system at a US university dedicated and configured for  wafer-scale 2D and nitride-based compound semiconductor  growth. It will prepare the future semiconductor workforce at the undergraduate  and graduate levels for the US-based semiconductor industry. In close cooperation with Aixtron,  the Boise State research team will  leverage unique material properties, artificial intelligence  (AI) algorithms and what are described as trailblazing microfabrication  techniques for the creation of novel technologies that will drive future  applications. “We are happy to tighten our bonds with the Unites States and the academic world by  providing an industrial-grade R&D reactor to Boise State University,” says  professor Michael Heuken, VP Advanced Technologies  at Aixtron. “Our CCS 3x2 equipment delivers best-in-class  results for 2D materials at wafer scale in multiple applications,” he adds.  “It is also the only system technology that can be configured for combined 2D  and GaN research while also allowing the growth of van der Waals  heterostructures.” 