Semiconductor Innovation for Net Zero project gains £2.45m funding A new research and innovation facility based at Swansea University  in Wales has received a funding boost of £2.45m to host a project that will  trial innovative emission reduction strategies to help the semiconductor  industry deliver on net-zero ambitions. The new Semiconductor Innovation for Net Zero (SIN_0) project  will be housed at the industry-focused Centre for Integrative Semiconductor  Materials (CISM), which is funded by the UK Research Partnership Investment Fund (UKRPIF). Net Zero is an £18.9m pilot funding initiative designed to  support capital activities that will reduce the carbon emissions of  UKRPIF-funded research facilities, making the research processes they support  more environmentally sustainable. Funded activity will also support the core  aims of the wider UKRPIF program, including enhancing higher-education (HE) facilities  to support world-class research and strengthening partnerships between  providers and other organizations active in research. UKRPIF and UKRPIF: Net Zero  are managed by Research England – part of UK Research and Innovation  (UKRI) – on behalf of the four funding bodies - Research England, the  Scottish Funding Council, the Higher Education Funding Council for Wales (HEFCW),  and the Department for the Economy, Northern Ireland.  Picture:   Artist’s impression of the CISM building. Due to be completed in September, CISM’s focus will be the  creation of ‘over-the-horizon’ semiconductor technologies to support  Net Zero, such as advanced solar cells and efficient  power electronics for the electrification of transport. CISM is part of  the regional CSconnected compound semiconductor cluster of industry, university,  RTO (research and technology organization),  and government partners driving forward the semiconductor sector in  South Wales. The SIN_0 project aims to extend that agenda to deploy and test  innovative emissions-reduction strategies in energy generation and storage, and  resource and waste stream management. SIN_0 will not only trailblaze the  decarbonization of advanced research infrastructure like CISM but also aims to de-risk  the interventions that the semiconductor manufacturing industry will need to  employ to reduce the carbon footprint of this critical sector rapidly and  dramatically. SIN_0 is one of nine Net Zero projects at UK universities (begun  in April and running until March 2023) that are set to reduce the carbon  footprint of research facilities, through the £18.9m funding boost. The  investment will support universities to enhance, upgrade and adapt research  centers and facilities to reduce their carbon emissions, and make research  processes more environmentally sustainable. “Our mission is to not only deliver our own institutional net-zero  ambitions, but also to support the semiconductor industry within our region and  the CSconnected partners as, together, we develop the technologies that will  decarbonize manufacturing and help Wales and the world to meet our net-zero  targets,” says Swansea University’s vice-chancellor professor Paul Boyle. “By piloting these innovative approaches to tackling net-zero in  infrastructure, we hope that this scheme will help us to learn more about what  works so that we and the HE sector can factor this into future activity and  build upon the already successful UKRPIF model,” says Research England  executive chair David Sweeney. “Our Environmental Sustainability Strategy commits UKRI to  supporting the research sector to reduce its negative environmental impacts,”  says professor Duncan Wingham,  executive chair of NERC (the Natural  Environment Research Council) and sponsor for Environmental Sustainability  and Net Zero in UKRI. “This funding will help these leading national  centers and facilities develop innovative solutions to reducing energy demand  and increasing the use of renewable power in some unique research  environments.” 