Wolfspeed’s March-quarter held to 37% year-on-year growth by China COVID shutdowns For its fiscal  third-quarter 2022 (ended 27 March), Wolfspeed Inc (formerly  Cree Inc) of Durham, NC, USA has reported a seventh consecutive quarter of  revenue growth to $188m, up  8.6% on $173.1m last quarter and 37% on  $137.3m a year ago. “Our top line was impacted [to the  high-single-digits million dollar  level] by COVID-19 quarantine protocols in China, which resulted in partial  shutdowns at some of our packaging subcontractors and delays in some of our  shipping channels,” notes executive VP  & chief financial officer Neill Reynolds.  “Absent these shutdowns, we would have met or exceeded the top end of our [$185–195m] guidance range.” All financial figures  are for continuing operations. After divesting its  Lighting Products business in May 2019 and its  LED Products business in March 2021, on 4 October Cree changed its name to that of its Wolfspeed business unit, focused on manufacturing silicon carbide materials as  well as both silicon carbide (SiC) and gallium nitride (GaN) power-switching & RF semiconductor devices. “Demand for our power device solutions  continues to be strong, as evidenced by revenue growth of approximately 87%  over the prior year,” says Reynolds. “We continue to see increased demand for our  silicon carbide solutions.” For RF devices, Wolfspeed is seeing positive momentum in the communications infrastructure  and aerospace & defense markets. “From a materials perspective, demand for  our 150mm SiC substrate is strengthening as we see increasing demand from our  customers, which resulted in strong year-over-year and sequential growth,” says  Reynolds.  “We continue to add capacity to serve this strengthening demand.” On a  non-GAAP basis, gross margin has grown further, from 35% a year ago and 35.4%  last quarter to 36.3%. This is above the midpoint of the 35–37% guidance range, as lower-than-expected device  revenue (due to the China shutdowns) drove modest improvements in the product mix. Operating expenses have risen further,  from $80m a year ago and $86.6m last quarter to $88.6m, due largely to  investments in the 200mm SiC substrate platform and in the device businesses (supporting  the ramp-up of the new Mohawk Valley fab in Marcy, NY). In May 2019, Cree began  a multi-year factory optimization plan. In Durham, the firm converted an old  lighting and office space into industrial space for a significant expansion of  its crystal growth and epi capability (part of a 30x increase in SiC materials  capacity). Also, in September 2019, Cree announced that the plan was being  anchored by a new automated 200mm SiC device fabrication facility at Marcy in  Mohawk Valley, New York State (expanding from the firm’s existing 150mm-wafer  SiC device fab in Durham). Operating loss was $20.4m (operating  margin of -11% of revenue), cut from $32m (-23% operating margin) a year ago. Net  loss has been cut further, from $24.7m ($0.22 per diluted share) a year ago and  $18.6m ($0.16 per diluted share) to $14.3m ($0.12 per diluted  share), which is better than the targeted $15–20m ($0.12–0.16 per diluted share). Operating cash outflow was –$28.4m  (improving further, from –$32.5m last quarter).  Capital expenditure (CapEx) was $102.8m. Free cash outflow was hence –$131.2m (a further improvement from –$176m last quarter). Additionally, Wolfspeed completed a  convertible debt offering at the end of January with the issuance of $750m convertible  senior notes, allowing it to fund  the expansion of materials capacity at the Durham campus, and additional fab  and back-end capacity to support the steepening demand for silicon carbide solutions. During the quarter, cash, cash equivalents and short-term  investments hence rose from about $700m to $1286m. So, Wolfspeed has about  $1.3bn of cash and liquidity on hand to support its plans. “We will continue to  be opportunistic from a capital market standpoint to ensure we have flexibility  to continue to support our long-term growth path,” says Reynolds. During the quarter Wolfspeed incurred factory  optimization start-up costs (primarily related to the new Mohawk Valley 200mm SiC device fab) totaling  $21.4m (almost doubling from $11m last quarter). The firm originally expected  $80m of start-up costs in fiscal 2022, incurred mostly in fiscal Q2 as it  continues to ramp the new fab. “At this time, we believe start-up costs will be  at approximately the $75m level by the end of the fiscal year,” notes Reynolds. Wolfspeed is running initial lots in the new  fab. “With the official opening of Mohawk Valley  at the end of April, we’ll improve our ability to meet the steepening demand  curve for silicon carbide devices,  which will only improve as we continue to ramp production capacity,” says Reynolds. “We’ll  start to see revenues start to more substantially come out of the fab as we get  into the back half of fiscal 2023… March and June quarter next year,” he adds. “This transition [of customers] to silicon carbide devices is happening faster than  we anticipated. In fact, our device opportunity pipeline continues to grow and  is now well north of $25bn [up from $10bn a year ago] and is comprised of  approximately 9000 different projects [up from 8700 last quarter],” says CEO  Gregg Lowe.  “More importantly, our sales team continues to do a phenomenal job converting  these opportunities into design-ins across a wide range of applications,” he  adds. Design-ins matched last quarter’s record $1.6bn  (up from $580m a year ago), about 70% of which were automotive-related, some of  which should generate revenue in fiscal 2026. Year-to-date design-ins are $3.8bn,  doubling year-on-year from $1.9bn (and exceeding full-year fiscal 2021’s  $2.9bn). “We have secured approximately $8.7bn of design-ins over the last  three years [about 45% of which have  now moved into initial production ramp, i.e. becoming a ‘design-win’],  representing a long tail for future revenue. This puts ever-increasing upward  pressure on our long-term revenue outlook,” says Lowe. “The progress we've made  at the Mohawk Valley fab, paired  with another record-setting design-in total for the quarter, demonstrates how  Wolfspeed is expanding its market-leading position and driving the transition  to silicon carbide devices in the  automotive and industrial end-markets,” he adds. “Given this, a top priority  going forward is increasing capacity for both materials and devices. We’ll  certainly leverage our existing footprint as much as we can. This includes  ongoing expansion of our materials footprint in Durham to maximize material  growth while also producing as many devices as we can out of our current fab in  North Carolina and pulling forward  some of our fit-out time-lines for the Mohawk Valley  fab… the fit out of the factory and the removing of temporary walls [to open up  the ballroom] and things like that, it's all accelerating versus our previous  plan.” Wolfspeed now expects net capital  expenditure of about $550m in fiscal 2022 versus the previously communicated  $475m. “This change is related to the timing of reimbursements from New York State for the Mohawk Valley fab,” notes Reynolds.  “We now anticipate receiving these reimbursements in the first half of fiscal 2023, and this does not  represent a significant change in our fiscal 2022 gross CapEx spend outlook,”  he adds. “The construction of this fab is not only a great accomplishment for  Wolfspeed, but also has created north of 250 jobs to date for the people of  Upstate New York and is attracting  future talent from the surrounding universities to our partnerships with SUNY  School System and others,” he adds. “Our financial results for the quarter continue to demonstrate  progress towards our corporate objectives and the further adoption of silicon carbide across a wide range of  applications,” says Lowe. For fiscal fourth-quarter 2022 (to  end-June), Wolfspeed targets revenue growth to $200–215m (up 10% sequentially), driven by Power device revenue more  than doubling as it continues to increase capacity across the supply chain. The impact on revenue of  COVID-related shutdowns in China will probably be similar to that in fiscal Q3  (high-single-digits million dollar  level). Gross margin should be steady at 35.3–37.3%. “The key to our gross margin transition from the mid-30s to 50%  in 2024 is largely based on three elements: optimizing Durham, transitioning  from 150mm to 200mm wafers, and driving revenue through Mohawk Valley,” notes Reynolds.  “We continue to be on track with all three of these elements, as evidenced by  our progress this quarter.” Operating expenses are targeted to be  $91m. “We anticipate operating expenses will continue to slowly increase over  time due to increased headcount in R&D and sales & marketing, but  expect this to become a smaller percentage of revenue as we near the middle of  the decade,” says Reynolds. Wolfspeed targets a cut in operating loss to  –$20–11m,  and net loss of –$16-9m ($0.13–0.07 per diluted share). “In 2023, we will likely spend as much or  more CapEx as we did this year… geared at increasing the capacity levels,” says  Reynolds. “We’ve got unfulfilled demand exceeding our supply to the tune of  around $100m,” adds Lowe. “We’re working real hard to grow the capacity as fast  as we can.” The Mohawk Valley  fab’s planned annual output at full capacity (in the 2024 time-frame) is  $1.5bn. At its Investor Day in  November, Wolfspeed was projecting $2.1bn of total annual revenue at the  company level, including about $1.4bn of device revenue. “Demand is just simply  coming in stronger and our win rate  is stronger than we anticipated… We will be needing another wafer fab sooner  than we originally had anticipated,” says Lowe. “This next fab [larger than  Mohawk Valley] is probably going to  take longer to build than the original fab, which is all the supply chain issues and the tool lead-times,” he  notes. “Wolfspeed will very likely need to add  more materials production as well,” says Lowe. “We have one factory here on  campus. We have a second factory that we’re expanding here on campus. What we're  talking about is a third factory for materials.” “Additional capital is being spent to  address materials, the Mohawk Valley  fab as well as the back end,” notes Reynolds. “Additionally, as we continue to  grow, we continue to have the right people in place to help us manage that.” 