amcoss supplies coating & developing wafer process system to Jenoptik amcoss GmbH of Feldkirch,  Austria (which develops and makes customized processing equipment for coating,  developing, temperature control  and cleaning, as well as lift-off and etching of substrates and masks) has  supplied high-power, edge-emitting laser manufacturer Jenoptik with a fully  automatic amc 2000  wafer processing unit for coating and developing wafers. Jenoptik will use the  equipment in lithography processing at its site in Berlin-Adlershof, Germany. “The  amcoss equipment is a replacement tool. Our goal is to significantly increase  capacity and yield, compared to the tool we have been using so far, which will  noticeably raise productivity,” says Dr Jürgen Sebastian, site manager at Jenoptik Berlin, which  produces high-power diode lasers for medical applications, materials  processing, R&D, and pump sources  for solid-state lasers. “Furthermore, we need optimized wafer centering and more  flexible application possibilities for 3” and 4” wafers,” he adds. “With amc 2000 we are sure  to reach these goals and to even increase quality and efficiency in wafer  processing.” amcoss says  that its wafer processing equipment is configured according to individual  customer needs, so that each tool is unique. “We do not build mass products, but each  of our machines is a highly  complex single piece,” says company owner David Erne. “So, amc 2000 for Jenoptik  has been designed for highest throughput. With its dual arm handler and four  loadport stations for parallel operation of up to four processes, it absolutely  is a high-throughput tool.” In addition, a space-saving, integrated  alignment-on-the-fly prealigner may alternatively be used, if flat orientation is  necessary. amcoss  says that the amc 2000  system’s flexible layout makes it a bridge tool. Jenoptik can now  simultaneousely process different wafer sizes – namely the required 3” and 4”  diameters – without the need for adaptation when changing size. By fitting the  tool with five dispense lines with a unique single-nozzle-gripper system and an  additional syringe, flexibility is increased even more, adds the firm. Various  hot-plates and cool-plates, a special vapor prime hotplate and an efficient EBR  system complete the configuration. In  addition to the new amcoss wafer processing tool, an amc 2500 system has also  been installed at the Jenoptik site in Dresden. 