ST and MACOM RF GaN-on-Si prototypes achieve technology and performance milestones STMicroelectronics of Geneva, Switzerland and MACOM Technology Solutions Inc of Lowell, MA, USA  (which designs and makes analog RF, microwave, millimeter-wave and photonic  semiconductors, components and subassemblies) have announced the production of radio-frequency gallium nitride on silicon (RF GaN-on-Si) prototypes. As the long-term incumbent RF power technology, silicon-based  laterally diffused metal-oxide semiconductor (LDMOS) dominated  early-generation RF power amplifiers (PAs). However, GaN can offer  superior RF characteristics and significantly higher output power than LDMOS  for the RF PAs, with high potential especially for 5G and 6G infrastructure.  Further, GaN can be manufactured on either silicon or silicon carbide (SiC) wafers. RF GaN-on-SiC can be more expensive because of the competition  for SiC wafers from high-power applications and because of its non-mainstream  semiconductor processing. On the other hand, the GaN-on-Si technology under  development by ST and MACOM is expected to offer competitive performance paired  with large economies of scale, enabled by its integration into standard  semiconductor process flows. Prototype wafers and devices manufactured by ST have achieved  cost and performance targets that would allow them to effectively compete with  the incumbent LDMOS and GaN-on-SiC technologies on the market, it is reckoned.  These prototypes are now moving to qualification and industrialization. ST is  on target to hit these milestones in 2022. With this progress, ST and MACOM  have begun discussions to further expand their efforts to accelerate delivery  of RF GaN-on-Si products to the market. “The technology has  now reached performance levels and process maturity where it can effectively  challenge the established LDMOS and GaN-on-SiC and we can offer attractive cost  and supply-chain advantages for high-volume applications, including wireless  Infrastructure,” believes  Edoardo Merli, Power Transistor Sub-Group general manager  & executive VP at STMicroelectronics. “Commercializing RF GaN-on-silicon products is the  next big milestone in our collaboration with MACOM and, with continued  progress, we look forward to fully realizing the potential of this exciting  technology,” he adds. “Together, we  continue to make good progress in moving the GaN-on-Si technology towards  commercialization and high-volume production,” comments MACOM’s president & CEO  Stephen G. Daly.  “Our collaboration with ST is an important part of our RF power strategy,  and I am confident that we can win market share in targeted applications  where the GaN-on-silicon technology meets the technical requirements.” 