Navitas GaN ICs fast-charge Lenovo’s 2022 Legion Gen 7 gaming laptops GaN power integrated circuit firm Navitas  Semiconductor of El Segundo, CA, USA and Dublin, Ireland says that its next-generation GaNFast power ICs with GaNSense technology have been  used in Lenovo’s new Legion C135 GaN charger. Lenovo’s Legion 5 and 5 Pro Gen 7  laptops are gaming machines, featuring AMD Rembrandt Ryzen 9 or Intel 12th-generation Alder Lake Core CPUs, AMD Radeon Vega or NVIDIA RTX GPUs, 32GB of DDR5 memory, 1TB of solid-state drive, up to 16” screens with 240Hz refresh rates, and an 80Whr battery. GaN runs up to 20x faster than legacy silicon chips, and enables  up to 3x more power or 3x faster charging in half the size and weight. GaNFast  power ICs with GaNSense technology  integrates power, drive and control with additional autonomous-protection and  loss-less current sensing to deliver  simple, small, fast and now even higher-power performance. The 135W-rated GaNFast charger is only 66mm x 65mm x 31mm  (133cc) – 40% smaller than legacy chargers – so the C135 achieves a power density over 1W/cc. The power conversion topology is a power factor correction (PFC) stage followed by  an isolating high-frequency, quasi-resonant (HFQR) flyback using Navitas’  NV6136A GaNFast power IC with  GaNSense technology. This eliminates the system-current-sensing resistor,  avoids a high-temperature ‘hot spot’  and delivers an additional 10% of energy savings with increased system  reliability. Peak charging efficiency  is over 92%, enabling the high power density. The C135 adopts Lenovo’s proprietary protocol to reach the full  135W rating and a 0-100% charge-time of only 65 minutes.  Also equipped with universal, industry-standard protocols (USB-PD, USB-PPS and  QC) at 100W and below, the C135 can also fast-charge any number of laptop,  tablet, phone and audio models from Lenovo and any other manufacturer. “Navitas’ GaNFast power ICs  have proven themselves at Lenovo with high performance and high quality since  the 2020 launch of the 90W charger  for the Lenovo Legion Pro Gaming Phone,” comments Chen Long, Lenovo’s PRC  consumer IP product marketing manager. “Now, we are excited  to see the next generation of Navitas ICs in the powerful C135, to bring a  lighter, more powerful charging experience  to consumers for the whole Legion family, including the Y9000P laptop, Y700  tablet, and Y90 mobile phone,” he adds. “We at Honoto are very happy to join hands with Navitas again to  use the Gen-3 GaNFast power IC  solution in Lenovo’s Legion C135 and  enable it to be an excellent high-power gallium nitride  fast charger,” comments Yuetian  Wang, vice chairman of power adapter maker Honoto. “Navitas’ GaN power IC is fast and efficient, easy-to-use,  and has a higher reliability and success rate in development and use. This has  enabled us to develop better power products and accelerate to market at a much  faster pace.” Navitas and Lenovo have collaborated on multi-media promotion for  the C135 charger and GaNFast power ICs, including co-branded video displays  in the Nasdaq Tower in New York’s Times Square,  and via social media. 