EV car maker NIO selects onsemi’s silicon carbide traction power modules Power semiconductor IC supplier onsemi of  Phoenix, AZ, USA says that  China-based car maker NIO Inc has chosen its latest  VE-Trac Direct SiC power modules for its next-generation  electric vehicles (EVs). The silicon carbide (SiC)-based  power modules enable longer range, higher efficiency and faster acceleration  for EVs. The VE-Trac Direct SiC is an integrated single side  direct cooling (SSDC) power module in a six-pack configuration with a  low turn-on resistance of 1.7mΩ. This  platform implements onsemi’s second-generation  SiC MOSFET technology to achieve higher performance, efficiency and quality  while sharing a compatible package footprint with its insulated-gate  bipolar transistor (IGBT) predecessor. An integrated pin fin baseplate  enables direct liquid cooling and easy assembly, which allows maximum  power output and more efficient thermal dissipation.  Picture:   VE-Trac Direct SiC traction power module. “From all the solutions we considered, the  VE-Trac Direct SiC traction power modules offered the best  efficiency during testing, allowing us to extend our New European Driving Cycle  (NEDC) range by 4% compared to the current silicon solution,” comments  Alan S. Zeng, senior VP at NIO. “onsemi convinced us with the high  performance and reliability of its products as well as the excellent support  from its engineering and management team,” he adds. “We look forward to  collaborating with onsemi on bringing more innovative EVs to market for  generations to come.” The VE-Trac offerings, including the previously introduced  VE-Trac Dual and VE-Trac Direct platforms, are available in  silicon-based IGBT and in SiC with various voltages, and for  traction inverter powers ranging from 100kW to 250kW. With its  standardized mechanical footprints and expanded power ratings, the VE-Trac  product family is designed to scale EV power outputs, accelerating the  adoption of hybrid and battery EVs (BEV). “This design collaboration is the culmination of substantial  efforts onsemi has put into developing the right technologies for emerging  applications such as smart EVs,” says Simon Keeton, executive VP &  general manager of Power Solutions Group at onsemi. “onsemi is the  only supplier of silicon carbide solutions with vertical integration  capability including SiC boule growth, substrate, epitaxy, device fabrication,  best-in-class integrated modules and discrete package solutions,” he claims.  “We are rapidly expanding our SiC capacity and are uniquely positioned to  address the growing EV market with supply assurance, performance, quality and  tailored SiC end solutions.” onsemi showcased its intelligent power and sensing solutions,  including VE-Trac platforms, at Power, Control  and Intelligent Motion (PCIM) Europe 2022 in Nuremberg, Germany  (10-12 May). 