InGaAs/AlGaAS nanowires on silicon Researchers based in Russia report on  molecular beam epitaxy (MBE) of indium gallium arsenide (InGaAs) quantum dots/wires (QDs/QWs) in aluminium gallium arsenide (AlGaAs) nanowires  (NWs) on silicon (Si) “for the first time” [Rodion  R. Reznik et al, Phys. Status Solidi RRL, p2200056, 2022]. The research team at St. Petersburg State University, Alferov University, Institute for  Analytical Instrumentation RAS, Ioffe Physical Technical Institute RAS, and  National Research University Higher School of  Economics, have previously studied MBE synthesis of GaAs QDs inside AlGaAs nanowires  on silicon. The researchers comment that these hybrid  nanostructures were effective sources of single photons in a wavelength range  of 750–800nm. Thus,  they constitue “promising candidates for use in quantum cryptography and alkali  metal (e.g. rubidium or cesium)-based atomic clock adjustments.” The replacement of GaAs by InGaAs allows  access to longer wavelength, including those in the important telecommunication  optical fiber range of 1.3μm. Such wavelengths can also  be transmitted through waveguides formed in the silicon substrate itself. The team writes: “Our work, therefore,  opens up new prospects for the integration of direct-bandgap semiconductors  with the silicon platform for various applications in the fields of silicon photonics and quantum communication technology.” There have been previous reports of  InGaAs/GaAs nanowires, but grown on GaAs rather than silicon substrates, and  photoluminescence emissions only presented at low temperature. Similar QD/QW formations have been studied  in the indium arsenide phosphide (InP/InAsP) system. However, phosphorus tends to be tricky  to handle in a safe, controlled manner during MBE growth. The researchers comment: “The results of  both optical and structural properties studies of grown structures showed that,  similar to the case of the InP/InAsP system, radial InGaAs QWs in addition to  InGaAs QDs are formed inside the nanowires as a result of lateral and axial  InGaAs growth competition.” 