5N Plus partners with Rio Tinto for domestic supply of tellurium Specialty semiconductor and performance materials  producer 5N Plus Inc of Montreal, Québec, Canada has reached a commercial agreement with  Rio Tinto to refine the tellurium to  be produced at global mining group Rio Tinto’s  Kennecott copper operation in Utah. In addition to many other elements refined and transformed by 5N Plus, tellurium is considered to be a  critical mineral by the Canadian and US governments due to its importance to  the economy and national security. The tellurium will be refined at the 5N Plus’ Montreal facility in Quebec, and used primarily in  the manufacturing of cadmium telluride (CdTe)  thin‐film photovoltaic (PV) modules by First Solar Inc  of Tempe, AZ, USA under an existing semiconductor supply agreement  between First Solar and 5N Plus. 5N Plus  has been a key supplier to First Solar  since 2007. The tellurium will also be used to manufacture ultra-high-purity  semiconductor substrates at 5N Plus’  facility in St. George, Utah, USA to  serve clients in the security and medical imaging markets. “Our intention is to continue to pursue such strategic  partnerships for the sourcing and refining of critical minerals in North America to the benefit of the critical  industries we serve,” says 5N Plus’  president & CEO Gervais Jacques. “This agreement with 5N Plus  is an important step towards securing a North American  supply chain of critical minerals to  support the clean energy  transition,” says Clayton Walker, chief operating officer  of Rio Tinto Copper. “We are proud  to deliver a new supply source of tellurium for the manufacturing of solar  panels and other high-tech equipment, in addition to our primary copper  production,” he adds. “Our ability to refine additional tellurium for applications in  the renewable energy industry is  made possible by our investment to expand the capacity of our Montreal campus,”  notes Jacques. “Coupled with our new partnership with Rio Tinto, this allows us to accelerate our  semiconductor development and manufacturing activities in North America and to further leverage our  globally recognized expertise in the transformation of mining and metallurgical  by-products into high-purity value-added critical minerals.” In June 2021, 5N Plus announced  a major investment in its Montreal campus to expand the development and  manufacturing of high-purity tellurium-bearing II-VI semiconductor compounds  and substrates, essential components for several critical industries (including  renewable energy). The project is  expected to be completed by mid-2022. See related item: 5N Plus secures multi-year supply contracts with First Solar 