ST cooperating with Semikron to integrate SiC power technology in EV drives STMicroelectronics of Geneva, Switzerland says it is supplying silicon carbide  (SiC) technology for the eMPack electric vehicle (EV) power modules  made by Semikron of Nuremberg, Germany. This is the result of a four-year technical collaboration between  the two companies to design-in ST’s SiC power semiconductors for superior  efficiency and industry-benchmark performance in more compact systems. ST says  that SiC is rapidly becoming the automotive industry’s preferred power  technology for EV traction drives, contributing to greater driving range  and reliability. Semikron recently announced that it had secured a billion-Euro  contract to supply its eMPack power modules to a major German  car maker, beginning in 2025. “ST’s  industry-leading SiC device-manufacturing capabilities and in-depth expertise  with the technology enabled us to integrate these cutting-edge semiconductors  with our advanced manufacturing processes, which enhance reliability, power density and scalability to  meet the needs of the automotive industry,” comments Semikron’s chief executive officer & chief  technical officer Karl-Heinz Gaubatz.  “As we now  move towards volume production, our collaboration with ST brings the assurance  of a robust supply chain that gives control over quality and delivery  performance,” he adds. “Leveraging  our SiC technology, Semikron’s advanced scalable eMPack family of power modules  is ready to make a major contribution towards zero-emission motoring,” reckons Edoardo Merli,  Power Transistor Sub-Group general manager & executive VP at  STMicroelectronics. “In addition to its  transformative effect in e-mobility, our SiC technology, now in its third generation, is driving  increased efficiency, performance and reliability in sustainable energy and  industrial power control applications.” ST claims that its third-generation SiC technology delivers  industry-leading process stability and performance. Engineers from ST and  Semikron cooperated to integrate the STPOWER SiC MOSFETs, which control  power switching in the main EV traction inverter, with Semikron’s  fully sintered direct pressed die (DPD) assembly process. DPD  enhances module performance and reliability and enables cost-effective power  and voltage scaling. Leveraging the parameters of ST’s SiC MOSFETs, supplied as  bare dice, Semikron has established 750V and 1200V eMPack platforms, addressing  applications from 100kW to 750kW and battery systems from 400V to 800V. ST has a broad portfolio of STPOWER SiC MOSFETs in production now.  They are available in standard power packages or as bare dice that are optimal  for advanced modules where high-power-density handling is a key requirement. 