ROHM highlights new power semiconductor developments and SiC capacity investment At Power,  Control and Intelligent Motion (PCIM) Europe 2022 in Nürnberg Messe, Nuremberg,  Germany (10–12 May), ROHM Semiconductor Europe has introduced its  new power semiconductor solutions focusing on e-mobility and  energy conversion applications. In addition, the firm announced its  European and global business activities, strategies and silicon carbide  (SiC) investment plans. One of ROHM’s new power  innovations is its fourth generation of SiC MOSFETs, which achieves up to 50%  lower switching loss and 40% reduction of on-resistance without  sacrificing short-circuit ruggedness. The latest generation also offers a more  flexible gate voltage range (15-18V) and supports turn-off with  zero voltage – enabling simple gate drive circuits with unipolar  supply to be used.  “The demand for SiC will  continue to grow, and ROHM will also increase sales,” foresees Dr Kazuhide  Ino, managing executive officer & chief  scientific officer (CSO) of  ROHM Co Ltd. “We will accelerate further investment and product  development based on the technology we have cultivated as a leading SiC manufacturer.  In addition, our company will continue to propose solutions that combine not  only SiC products but also peripheral components and customer support.” Recently, ROHM increased its  production capacity for SiC power semiconductors with the completion of a  new building at its Apollo plant in Chikugo, Japan. “As a vertically integrated  semiconductor manufacturer we are largely independent of suppliers and can  respond more flexibly to market changes,” states Wolfram Harnack, president of  ROHM Semiconductor Europe. “The high degree of integration of our fabs  gives us an advantage over other manufacturers who outsource many production  steps. In addition, we are making great efforts to further optimize our supply chains,  including our production system, and to achieve stable supplies for our  customers.”  As the demand for silicon carbide  wafers will continue to grow in the future, ROHM plans to expand its  investments and production capacities. In addition, ROHM’s production subsidiary  SiCrystal in Nuremberg, Germany plans to strongly grow its capacities and  staffing. “SiCrystal’s intermediate goal is to achieve nine-figure sales by  producing several 100,000 substrates a year,” says SiCrystal’s CEO Dr Robert  Eckstein. “We were able to achieve record  sales in the last fiscal term and expect to continue strong performance in the  current fiscal term,” says ROHM’s president & CEO Isao Matsumoto.  “Accordingly, we revised the medium-term management plan upward and ahead of  schedule,” he adds. “Among the global markets, we recognize Europe as a  priority market to focus on, with many companies leading technological  innovation in automotive and industrial equipment. Also, ROHM will continue to  provide customers with solutions centered on power and analog products, which  are ROHM’s specialties,” he concludes. 