Navitas ships 50 millionth GaN IC GaN power  integrated circuit  firm Navitas Semiconductor of El Segundo, CA, USA and Dublin, Ireland  (which was founded in 2014) has announced what it says is an industry-first  achievement of 50 million units shipped – with zero reported GaN-related  field failures. To celebrate, a Navitas GaN wafer was presented to customer  vivo. GaN runs 20x faster than  traditional silicon and enables up to 3x the power or 3x faster charging with  up to 40% energy savings in just half the size and weight. Navitas’ GaNFast  power ICs integrate GaN power and drive plus sensing, protection and control  circuits to deliver simple, small, fast and efficient power conversion performance for mobile,  consumer, enterprise, eMobility and new energy markets. Over 145 Navitas  patents are issued or pending. In January and April, vivo and Navitas  aligned their visions for fast and ultra-fast charging with new products launched  in mass production, all adopting Navitas’ GaNFast with GaNSense  next-generation GaN power ICs. As an early-adopter of GaNSense technology,  vivo first launched a 120W in-box  ultra-fast charger, shipped with one of the firm’s latest  flagship phone model, enabling 0-100% charging speed in only 19 minutes.  Then, a dual-USB-C, 80W GaN charger shipped with vivo’s first 8”-screen  foldable phone, supporting simultaneous fast charging of two devices at a weight  of just 122g. With a power density of 1W/cc, charging from 0-50% takes only 17 minutes. “The cooperation with Navitas kicks off a  new era for vivo and its historical upgrade of mobile-phone charging speed,”  says vivo’s senior VP & chief technology officer Yujian Shi.  “Users can experience ultra-fast, ultra-portable charging on our new flagship  phones thanks to Navitas’ GaNFast power ICs.” Since full qualification in 2018, Navitas  claims to be industry leader in fast and ultra-fast chargers for consumer  mobile applications. Recent announcements on high-power IC availability  and dedicated design centers for data-center and EV applications indicate  the firm’s expansion beyond chargers, into high-reliability systems – backed by  an industry-first, 20-year limited warranty. 