AXT Q1 revenue grows 26% year-on-year, driven by 45% growth in InP For first-quarter 2022,  AXT Inc of Fremont, CA, USA – which makes gallium arsenide (GaAs), indium phosphide (InP) and germanium (Ge) substrates and raw materials – has reported a ninth consecutive  quarter of revenue growth, to $39.7m (near the top end of the  guidance range of $38-40m). This is up 5% on $37.7m last quarter  and 26% on $31.4m a year ago, highlighting market share  gains and expansion into new applications and tier-1 opportunities. Of total revenue, the proportion  from the Asia Pacific region was 73%, Europe was 16%, and  North America was 11%. The top five customers generated about 29% of total  revenue, one of which just edged over 10%. “Our continued revenue diversity  demonstrates that our growth is not overly dependent on one large customer or  application,” notes CEO Morris Young. “We have reached an  inflection point in our business, where our investments in technology, business  operations, and customer relationships are contributing to our growth,” says  Young. “We are particularly pleased with the continued strong growth of our  indium phosphide products. Total substrate revenue was $31.7m,  up 10.8% on $28.6m last quarter and 35.5% on $23.4m a year ago. By  product category, germanium substrates was $4.2m (level with last quarter), but  GaAs was $12m (up 6.2% on $11.3m) and InP was a record $15.5m  (up 18.3% on $13.1m last quarter, and up more than 45% on a year ago).  This “puts us well on track to achieve indium phosphide revenue growth of 30%  or more this year,” says Young. Revenue was $7.9m from AXT’s two consolidated raw material  joint venture companies BoYu (which  makes high-temperature pyrolytic boron nitride crucibles and pBN-based tools  for organic light-emitting diodes) and JinMei (which supplies high-purity  materials including gallium and germanium, as well as InP poly and other  materials). This is down on $9.1m last quarter, after  very strong growth throughout 2021, with prices remaining volatile. “The  consolidated raw material companies are being selective in the business they  support in order to drive improved gross margin performance in our  business,” says Young. “We were pleased to see the increase in contribution to  profit from the unconsolidated raw material companies, which represent  additional positive leverage in our model. This is a strong benefit of our  vertical integration strategy,” he adds. “While high raw material prices  had a negative impact on our cost of goods sold (COGS) for AXT  and its competitors, AXT is able to offset some of the impact of the higher  prices through the revenue generated by our joint ventures. We also have the  benefit of supply guarantees and insight into the pricing trend… These have  proven highly valuable to our business over the last two decades.” On a non-GAAP basis,  gross margin was 33.8%, still down on 36.9% a year ago but recovering further  from 32.4% last quarter, due to growing volume, a favorable  product mix (due to growth in InP), and a strong focus on yield improvements  and manufacturing efficiencies. “We continue to believe that we can get  back to the 35% range later this year,” says chief financial officer Gary  Fischer. Operating expenses have  risen further, from $7.2m a year ago and $8.1m last quarter to $8.6m. Net income was $4.3m ($0.10 per share, above the expected $0.07-0.09), up from $4.1m ($0.09 per share) last quarter and  $4.2m ($0.10 per share) a year ago. Capital  expenditure (CapEx) was $6.3m, due to adding InP furnaces (since AXT “can’t  quite meet the demand from one of our good customers,” says Fischer), as well  as some wafer processing equipment in the GaAs and germanium lines. During  the quarter, cash, cash equivalents and investments fell from $51.8m to $44.3m. “Total revenue growth  is coming from a diverse set of applications and customers across telecom  infrastructure, data-center, industrial, consumer, healthcare, automotive, and  other markets – giving us confidence in the sustainability of our business  model throughout 2022 and beyond,” says Young. For  Q2/2022, AXT expects revenue of $38-41m, and net profit per share of  $0.08-0.10. Gross margin should be similar to Q1. “Our  key markets have entered a new cycle of innovation and application development  that is driving opportunity expansions and diversify our revenue base,” says  Young. “This is supported by the strong order pattern we are currently  experiencing. Demand from several of our tier-1 customers is robust, and we’re  working hard to scale our production accordingly,” he adds. “Through the  scaling of our operations, investing in our product roadmaps, and strengthening  of our capital structure, we are executing on a strategy that positions us well  for the healthy growth and profitability throughout 2022 and beyond.” In late December, AXT said that its China-based wafer  manufacturing subsidiary Beijing Tongmei Xtal Technology Co Ltd  submitted its application to list its shares in an initial public offering on the Shanghai Stock Exchange’s Sci-Tech innovAtion boaRd (STAR Market). The application was accepted for  consideration on 10 January. Subsequently, Tongmei responded to questions received from the  Shanghai Stock Exchange’s Review Board and submitted a revised application, which was accepted for review on 18 April. AXT notes that  the process of going public on the STAR Market includes  several periods of review and, therefore, is a lengthy process. Tongmei expects  to accomplish this goal in second-half 2022. 