MICLEDI presenting 300mm micro-LED array technology for AR glasses at Display Week MICLEDI  Microdisplays B.V. of Leuven, Belgium – a fabless developer of micro-LED display modules for augmented reality  (AR) glasses – is demonstrating its technology at  the Display Week 2022 event hosted by the Society for Information Display  (SID) in San Jose, CA, USA (8-13 May). As creators of what  are claimed to be the first micro-LED arrays-for-AR built on a 300mm CMOS  manufacturing platform, MICLEDI says that it enables more compact, power-efficient devices that address the  needs of future AR glasses in terms of display size,  resolution, brightness, image quality, power consumption  and cost. AR headsets are  currently heavy, bulky and costly, and deliver poor image realism and low  resolution. Nearly every leading technology company is investing in AR to drive  the future of their consumer offerings, and micro-LED displays are a  mission-critical component. MICLEDI  says that its technology and manufacturing process  overcome the challenges with first- and second-generation AR glasses to achieve  the features that consumers will require for visually immersive AR. At Display Week in Session 57 on 12 May (3:10-4:30pm in  room 220C), MICLEDI’s chief technology officer Dr Soeren Steudel is giving a presentation ‘MicroLED  Display Integration on 300mm Advanced CMOS Platform’ highlighting  the reality  and manufacturability of MICLEDI’s proprietary 300mm manufacturing flow. Having first  demonstrated its blue FHD arrays at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES 2022)  in January, MICLEDI recently released ‘passive matrix’ samples of its next-generation  blue arrays. These are manufactured in the firm’s proprietary 300mm  reconstitution and hybrid wafer-to-wafer bonding flow, including a base CMOS  metallization wafer, enabling customers to illuminate and characterize  different portions of the array. By mid-2022, the firm expects to release  samples of its blue array with its proprietary pixel-by-pixel lensing system  designed to narrow the apex angle of each pixel for maximum brightness. Samples  of green and red arrays are expected in second-half 2022. “In just the last few months, we have made significant progress toward  commercial readiness, as evidenced by the number of enthusiastic inquiries  from, and ongoing conversations with, a wide range of tier-1 OEM manufacturers  with special interest in the AR space,” says CEO Sean Lord. “Display Week is a premier opportunity for us to  showcase our world-class 300mm micro-LEDs, discuss with customers our new  high-volume, low-cost manufacturing partner GlobalFoundries, and engage our  customers for next-generation samples coming throughout the balance of 2022.” At Display Week, demonstrations are being given in MICLEDI’s  booth #740 on the show floor at the McEnery  Convention Center (10-12 May) and include samples of red, green and blue micro-LED  arrays that can be examined with low- and high-resolution microscopes, as well  as reconstituted gallium nitride (GaN) on silicon wafers, and diced  devices. 