onsemi showcasing energy-efficient solutions at PCIM In booth 330 (Hall 9) at Power,  Control and Intelligent Motion (PCIM)  Europe 2022 in Nürnberg Messe, Nuremberg, Germany (10-12 May), power semiconductor  IC supplier onsemi of Phoenix, AZ, USA is introducing a range of new  power solutions. Onsemi is giving live demonstrations of its latest technologies,  showing how they enable the development of solutions for applications including  e-mobility, energy storage, and  smart power. Included among the demos are a Student Formula car developed in conjunction with Technical University Munich, and an e-scooter. Also  on show is an electric vehicle (EV)  charger from Kempower that incorporates onsemi silicon carbide (SiC) diodes and a warehouse robot with ecoSpin. onsemi is launching a new power bundle for USB-C PD (power delivery) charging above 100W, featuring  the NCP1623, NCP1345 and NCP4307 – all part of the critical conduction mode PFC, high-frequency quasi-resonant  (QR) and synchronous rectifier controller family. The USB-C offering will be  further expanded by the announcement of new USB-C controllers. onsemi is also introducing multiple new SiC power switching  devices, all of which offer enhanced performance over previous generations. The  first TOLL-packaged 650V 33mΩ SiC MOSFET,  NTBL045N065SC1, is launched with less footprint, less space and lower package inductance than D2PAK 7-lead. This  provides Kelvin source configuration  to improve switching loss and gate noise and guarantees MSL1 (Moisture Sensitivity Level 1). SiC devices offer significant  advantages over their silicon predecessors, including enhanced efficiency at  high frequencies, lower EMI,  higher-temperature operation and greater reliability. onsemi claims to be the  only supplier of SiC solutions with vertical integration capability including  SiC boule growth, substrate, epitaxy, device fabrication, integrated modules  and discrete package solutions. Lastly, onsemi is also presenting the seventh-generation  insulated-gate bipolar transistor (IGBT) and diode for the first time. The  latest 1200V FS7 IGBT has reduced forward-bias voltage by 20% compared with the  previous generation, greatly improving the efficiency and power density in motor control application. The firm is also launching fast  version FS7 IGBT for medium-high switching frequency applications in solar, UPS  and energy storage, in which the  switching loss is 50% improved. The FS7 portfolio is further extended with 750V  and 1200V VE-Trac Direct  automotive-qualified solutions, with what is claimed to be excellent  ruggedness, soft switching and high  efficiency to meet EV traction needs. onsemi staff are presenting a number of topics at PCIM, covering  SiC technology within the poster sessions,  power electronics at the industry forum, the e-mobility forum, and the  exhibitor forum. 