II-VI extends ion implanter disk refurbishing services to Asia Engineered materials and optoelectronic component  maker II-VI Inc of Saxonburg, PA, USA – which claims to have the  world’s largest ion implant foundry with disk refurbishing services – is extending its ion implanter  disk refurbishing services to Asia, with a multi-million-dollar expansion  in Hsinchu City, Taiwan (to come online in July). The acute shortages of semiconductor devices in the global supply chain  are driving strong demand for refurbishment of wafer fabrication equipment,  notes the firm. The expansion in Taiwan will effectively double II-VI’s global  disk refurbishing capacity. Batch implanter tool owners in Asia can  benefit from a rapid turnaround service that will enable them to maintain  their tools in operation and sustain their production output, it adds. “The market demand for used ion implant equipment already exceeds  availability by about a factor of ten, including in Asia,” says Sohail Khan,  executive VP, New Ventures & Wide-Bandgap Electronics Technologies.  “Our 25 years of expertise and innovations in disk refurbishment enable  our customers to achieve an average of 30% savings on cost of ownership  over OEM service. By coming to us, customers will reduce their maintenance  costs and get the most out of their ion implanter equipment from higher  reliability and longer service life.” II-VI says that, as a global provider of foundry ion implantation  services and support, it implants tens of thousands of wafers per week and adds  tools and capacity as required to support customers’ changing needs. The firm  adds that its technical expertise, quality program and broad range of tooling  offer a flexible outsourcing option for ion implantation, serving production  manufacturing and R&D environments. II-VI maintains a large complement of high- and medium-current and  high-energy production implanters handling 2-inch to 12-inch substrates. The firm  provides ion implantation services for silicon and compound semiconductor  wafers, including heated ion implantation for silicon carbide (SiC)  wafers. II-VI is participating as an exhibitor at the 36th  International Conference on Compound Semiconductor Manufacturing  Technology (CS MANTECH) in Monterey, CA, USA (9-11 May). 