NUBURU and Essentium partner to launch first blue laser-based wire feed metal 3D printers High-power blue laser technology firm NUBURU Inc  of Centennial, CO, USA (which was founded in 2015) and industrial  additive manufacturing (AM) firm Essentium Inc of Austin, TX (which makes industrial 3D printers  and materials) are partnering to develop and manufacture a blue laser-based  metal AM platform. The new Essentium printer will enable manufacturers to  create production-grade metal parts with high resolution and fast throughput. Under the multi-year, multi-million-dollar agreement, Essentium  may integrate NUBURU’s proprietary blue laser technology with its  high-speed extrusion (HSE) 3D printing technology for product development  in the first phase, and manufacturing in the second phase. The new AM platform  is designed to deliver breakthrough throughput for extremely high part quality  and broad-scale use in major industrial markets, including automotive,  aerospace and defense. As a part of the contract, NUBURU will also license its core 3D printing  application patents, based on its foundational patent ‘Methods and systems for  welding copper using blue laser’ (US10,940,562B2 and JP2019562226A). NUBURU claims that its blue laser is well suited to materials  processing applications within AM. Critical materials such as copper, stainless steel  and aluminum reflect much of the infrared wavelengths transmitted by  traditional industrial lasers, which leads to lower print speed and  quality. NUBURU says that its blue laser technology enables printing with  10x the build speed and the ability to print with a very high metal density  without any post processes. “Our high-power, high-brightness blue laser technology, along  with our 3D printing IP, will help Essentium build a powerful metal 3D printer  with a wide range of applications,” reckons NUBURU’s co-founder, CEO &  president Mark Zediker Ph.D. Essentium says that its HSE 3D printing platforms enable an  industrial-scale additive manufacturing solution that allows the generation of  production-floor-ready parts at scale quickly and cost-effectively. Supported  by eight patents to date, the technology provides energy-efficient deposition,  eliminating porosity and minimizing warpage during a build. The new platform  will produce parts comparable to castings and forgings with minimal  post-processing required. “NUBURU is the leader in blue laser technology, and their  expertise will help enable gains in speed and power within our new platform,”  comments Essentium’s chief development officer & co-founder Elisa  Teipel Ph.D. “We are looking forward to working with their team and  leveraging their technology, enabling Essentium to commercialize a new metal 3D printing  platform.” 