Smartphone shipments fall year-on-year for third consecutive quarter, by 11% to 314 million in Q1/2022 Global smartphone shipments fell by 11%  year-on-year to 314 million units in first-quarter 2022  (the third consecutive  quarter of annual decline by smartphone volumes), according to market research firm Strategy Analytics. “Factory constraints and component shortages continued to restrict  smartphone supply in the first quarter of this year,” notes senior director Linda Sui. “Meanwhile,  unfavorable economic conditions, geopolitical issues, as well as COVID-19  disruption (China rolling lockdown etc) continued to weaken consumers’ demand  on smartphones and other non-essential products.”  Samsung’s 75 million  smartphone shipments yielded the top  market share of 24% (its highest first-quarter performance over the past  five years, since 2017). “Demand  was strong for the newly launched flagship Galaxy S22 series, especially the higher-priced S22 Ultra model,” says Woody Oh,  director at Strategy Analytics. “Meanwhile, Samsung continue to ramp up the  mass-market A series in  multiple markets. Apple shipped 57 million  iPhones (up 1% year-on-year), yielding 18% market share (ranking  second). “Apple had a good quarter, led by iPhone 13 series and the newly launched iPhone SE (2022), which starts to  become a volume driver in lower segment,” notes Oh. “Apple also captured the  highest first-quarter market share since 2013, at the expense of leading  Chinese brands, who are hampered by the sluggish home market.” Nevertheless, Xiaomi, OPPO (including  OnePlus) and vivo remained in the top five. Xiaomi shipped 39 million  smartphones, yielding third place with 12% market share (down from 14% a year ago). “Xiaomi suffered from the  geopolitical uncertainties in Europe,” says senior analyst Yiwen Wu. “China and India market also delivered a  mixed bag for the Chinese brand.” OPPO (OnePlus) held fourth place, with 10%  market share. Vivo remained  fifth, with 8% market share.  “OPPO (OnePlus) and Vivo both lost ground in all key markets except Latin America, as 5G competition from  Honor and other smartphone competitors intensified sharply in China and other  markets,” adds Wu. “Global competition among other major smartphone brands, beyond  the top-five, was fierce during Q1/2022,” comments executive director Neil Mawston.  “Honor, Realme, Lenovo-Motorola and Transsion all outperformed the overall  market but delivered different patterns. Honor held firm in China and continued  to ramp up in overseas markets. Realme continued the upwards track in all  regions, but China pulled back the overall performance. Lenovo-Motorola gained  share in the North America  but the momentum in Central Latin America  has been disrupted by other Chinese brands. Transsion faced the intensified  competition from Samsung in Africa region, posting the annual decline in the  region for the first time over the past two years,” he adds. Strategy Analytics forecasts that global smartphone  shipments to contract by 1-2% year-on-year in full-year 2022. “This year will be a tale of two halves,” expects Sui.  “Geopolitical issues, component shortages, price inflation, exchange rate volatility, and COVID disruption  will continue to weigh on the smartphone market during the first half of 2022, before the  situation eases in the second half due to Covid vaccines, interest rate rises  by central banks, and less supply disruption at factories.” 