Seoul Semiconductor files patent lawsuits over Philips’ TV and filament LED bulbs South  Korean LED maker Seoul Semiconductor Co Ltd says that it has launched patent infringement  lawsuits in the USA against global retail company Ace Hardware and in Europe  against a distributor of Conrad Electronic’s sales platform. In the two  cases, which are pending in the US District Court for the Eastern District of  Virginia and the German District Court  of Düsseldorf, Seoul asserted infringement of its patents by Philips brand TVs, filament LED bulbs, and premium lighting products.  Seoul also sought a recall of infringing products as well as the destruction of  those products in the German case. In these  lawsuits, Seoul’s patents cover phosphor technology for high-quality color gamut and WICOP (Wafer-level Integrated Chip on PCB) technology. Seoul says  that it has developed its phosphor technology together with a Japanese company  (M) over the last 15 years and has  succeeded in producing LED lights that are the closest spectrum to natural  light. Based on the quality of these lights, Seoul’s phosphor technology can be  found in premium lighting products requiring a color rendering index (CRI) of more than 90, as well as display  products. WICOP is a  patented technology that is compactly designed without wire bonding or  packaging, enabling LEDs to be mounted directly in a PCB assembly. The  technology has been adopted in over models of 100 car (comprising about 10% of  the global automobile market). The firm adds that it is also used in about 20%  of the global TV market, as of 2020. Seoul has  already obtained permanent injunctions against various infringing products  several times in Europe and the USA. In September 2020, the German District Court of Düsseldorf issued permanent  injunctions, an order of recall and destruction against filament LED bulbs manufactured by a Phillips brand affiliate. In 2019 and 2021, the US  District Court for the Central District of California and the New Jersey District Court issued permanent injunctions against the sales of a  Philips TV product and 13 automotive lighting brand LED products, respectively. 