Efficiency droop halved in cubic- versus hexagonal-phase InGaAlN LEDs It is widely accepted that the large Auger coefficient is the main  cause for the large (~50%) efficiency droop in traditional hexagonal-phase  indium gallium aluminium nitride (InGaAlN) LEDs. Yet  this explanation is inadequate to account for the low efficiency droop in  gallium arsenide (GaAs)- and gallium phosphide (GaP)-based LEDs, as those have  similar Auger coefficients. Now, Can Bayram, Jean-Pierre Leburton and Yi-Chia Tsai at the University  of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign (UIUC) have shown that the coexistence  of strong internal polarization and large carrier effective mass accounts for about 51% of the  efficiency droop under high current densities  in hexagonal-phase InGaAlN green LEDs (h-LEDs) compared with cubic-phase  InGaAlN green LEDs (cLEDs) – see Y.-C. Tsai, J.P. Leburton, C. Bayram,  ‘Quenching of the Efficiency Droop  in Cubic Phase InGaAlN  Light-Emitting Diodes’, IEEE Trans.  Electron Devices (2022); https://doi.org/10.1109/TED.2022.3167645. Previously, the efficiency droop reduction in non-polar h-LEDs was  attributed to the decrease in carrier leakage from the active region,  overlooking the interplay between internal polarization and Auger  recombination. Indeed, recent experiments suggest that the efficiency droop reduction in non-polar h-LEDs is in  fact due to carrier delocalization (a situation different than in polar h-LEDs)  that results in stronger electron-hole wavefunction overlap, lower quantum well carrier densities, and lower Auger  recombination rates. The UIUC team found out that large carrier effective mass promotes carrier localization and  degrades the band-to-band optical transition matrix element.  Picture: Normalized  internal quantum efficiency (IQE) (left y-axis) and efficiency droop (right y-axis) as a function of current density. Red  hexagons and green rhombuses refer to hexagonal-phase (h-) and cubic-phase (c-)  InGaAlN LEDs; blue pentagons refer to  nonpolar h-LED grown on m-plane GaN substrates. According to this new interpretation, the researchers show that  switching from polar h-LEDs to c-LEDs quenches the efficiency droop from 45% to  22% (i.e. a 51% reduction) due to polarization elimination and effective mass reduction. It is further found that  the quantum efficiency of c-LEDs is  much more immune to the Auger electron-hole asymmetry, the increase in Auger  coefficient, and thus efficiency degradation mechanisms. Hence, cubic-phase  InGaAlN green LEDs offer an appropriate solution for quenching the efficiency  droop. 