ROHM and Delta partner on developing and mass producing GaN devices Japan-based power semiconductor maker  ROHM Co Ltd and power supply maker Delta Electronics Inc  have entered into a strategic partnership to develop and mass produce  gallium nitride (GaN) power devices. Combining Delta’s power supply device  development technology with ROHM’s market-proven power development and  manufacturing expertise will make it possible to develop 600V  breakdown voltage GaN power devices optimized for a wide range of  power supply systems. ROHM has already (in March) established a  mass-production system for 150V GaN high-electron-mobility transistors  (HEMTs) featuring what is claimed to be a breakthrough 8V gate withstand  voltage. This will allow the firm to expand its new EcoGaN device range for power circuits in Internet of Things  (IoT) communications and industrial equipment (i.e. base stations,  data centers) while further improving device performance (maximizing the low-ON-resistance and  high-speed-switching characteristics of GaN to achieve lower application power consumption, smaller peripheral components, and simpler designs  that require fewer parts). “As power semiconductors – a key area of  focus for ROHM – play an increasingly important role in achieving a  decarbonized society, ROHM will continue to develop advanced devices in a range  of fields utilizing silicon, silicon carbide (SiC) and GaN, along with  solutions that combine peripheral components such as control ICs that maximize  their performance,” says Kazuhide Ino, ROHM’s managing executive officer  & chief scientific officer (CSO). “Through this partnership, ROHM  will mass produce GaN power devices that can contribute to the  configuration of more efficient power supply systems as well as develop  GaN IPMs [intelligent power modules] that integrate analog ICs (one of  ROHM’s strengths) at an early stage, further expanding our lineup of  easy-to-use products,” he adds. “The development of GaN power devices is  of significant interest to the global electronics industry,” notes Mark Ko,  vice chairman, Delta Electronics. “We have been working with ROHM for many  years, and are very pleased that this year’s technical exchange will finally  produce results, which is a milestone for both companies and one that will  bring us closer together,” he adds. “In addition to this GaN collaboration,  Delta is looking to further strengthen its product lineup as a key business  strategy, with high expectations for product development utilizing ROHM’s  strengths in analog (Nano) and other technologies. We believe that  strengthening our collaboration with ROHM will allow us to provide a wide range  of solutions that meet the needs of the global power supply market.” Improving the efficiency of motors and  power supplies (which are said to account for the most of the world’s  electricity consumption) has become a significant hurdle to achieving a  decarbonized society. As power devices hold the key to improving  efficiency, the adoption of new materials such as SiC and GaN is expected to  further increase the efficiency of power supplies. ROHM and Delta says they  have been engaged in technology exchanges and building a cooperative  relationship for the development of various applications over many years and,  through this partnership, both companies aim to develop and mass produce  GaN power devices that maximize GaN performance to accelerate power  technology innovation. 