Ayar Labs raises $130m in Series C funding round Ayar Labs of Santa Clara, CA, USA has secured $130m in additional financing  led by Boardman Bay Capital  Management to drive the commercialization of its integrated  optical I/O solution, which is targeted  at artificial intelligence (AI), cloud, high-performance computing (HPC),  5G, and light detection & ranging (LIDAR) applications. Hewlett Packard  Enterprise (HPE) and NVIDIA entered this investment round, joining existing  strategic investors Applied Ventures LLC,  GlobalFoundries, Intel Capital, and Lockheed Martin  Ventures. Other new strategic and financial investors include Agave SPV,  Atreides Capital, Berkeley Frontier Fund, IAG Capital Partners, Infinitum  Capital, Nautilus Venture Partners,  and Tyche Partners. They join existing investors such as BlueSky Capital,  Founders Fund, Playground Global, and TechU Venture Partners. “As a successful technology-focused crossover fund operating for  over a decade, Ayar Labs represents  our largest private investment to date,” says Will Graves, chief investment officer at Boardman Bay Capital Management. “We believe that  silicon photonics-based optical  interconnects in the data-center and telecommunications markets represent a  massive new opportunity and that Ayar Labs is the leader in this emerging space  with proven technology, a fantastic team, and the right ecosystem partners and  strategy,” he comments. “Optical connectivity will be important to scale accelerated  computing clusters to meet the fast-growing demands of AI and HPC workloads,”  notes Bill Dally, chief scientist & senior VP of research at NVIDIA. “Ayar  Labs has unique optical I/O technology that meets the needs of scaling  next-generation silicon photonics-based  architectures for AI.” Ayar Labs says that its optical I/O solution eliminates the  bottlenecks associated with system bandwidth, power consumption, latency and  reach, dramatically improving existing system architectures and enabling new,  previously unrealizable solutions for AI, HPC, cloud, telecommunications,  aerospace and remote sensing applications. With the new investment, Ayar Labs is ramping production and securing  supply chain partners, as signaled  by previously announced multi-year strategic collaborations with optical and  photonic product makers Lumentum and MACOM as well as GlobalFoundries on its new GF Fotonix  platform. “Ayar Labs’ highly differentiated technology is crucial to  supporting the high-performance computing architectures of the future,”  believes Paul Glaser, VP & head of Hewlett Packard Pathfinder, HPE’s venture arm. “Ayar Labs  represents a strategic investment opportunity for HPE to help our customers  more efficiently derive greater insights and value from their data,” he adds. “The overall financing is much larger than we originally targeted,  underscoring the market opportunity for optical I/O and Ayar Labs’ leadership position in silicon photonics-based interconnect solutions,”  says Ayar Labs’ CEO Charles  Wuischpard. “This financing allows us to fully qualify our solution against  industry standards for quality and reliability and scale production starting  this year.” Ayar Labs also announced that it made its first volume commercial  shipments under contract and expects to ship thousands of units of its  in-package optical interconnect by the end of this year. 