Porotech showcases brightest native full-color InGaN-based micro-LED display projections at Touch Taiwan In booth #M402 (Hall 1, 4F)  at the Touch Taiwan – Display International event in the Taipei  Nangang Exhibition Center (27-29 April),  Porotech (which was spun off in 2020 from the Cambridge Centre for Gallium Nitride at the UK’s University of Cambridge) is  showcasing what it says is the first set of native  indium gallium nitride (InGaN)-based red, green and blue micro-LED  displays at 1920 x 1080 resolution with at least 2 million nits of  brightness (≥2m nits). Porotech claims to be first in the  industry to demonstrate all three color light-emitting elements produced with a  single material and toolchain, enabled by its PoroGaN micro-LED technology  platform - including a native red InGaN display at 614-625nm wavelength.  The platform’s proprietary subsurface porosity technology enables a dramatic  increase in brightness and efficiency in all three primary colors, while its  scalable architectures are said to simplify the manufacturing processes, thus  reducing cost, which are all critical requirements for the commercialization of  micro-LED displays for next-generation consumer augmented/mixed/virtual reality (AR/MR/VR) glasses,  smart wearables and smart displays. Until now, the requirement to mix multiple  material systems has complicated the manufacture of full-color displays in the  micro (µm)- or nano (nm)-pixel space, due to the marked drop in  efficiency of the red sub-pixel with decreasing pixel size. “Our deep material  technology has unlocked the ability to produce micro-LEDs with high brightness  and color uniformity for RGB grown on a single InGaN-based material system and  produced with a single tool chain,” says CEO & co-founder  Dr Tongtong Zhu. “This will enable a wide range of use cases for  optical system designs while optimizing micro-display manufacturing and  improving yield for mass production,” he adds. “Meanwhile, we have been working  on full-color InGaN-based monolithic micro-LED displays, and expect to be  making an exciting announcement to the public very soon.”  Enabled by the proprietary technologies,  the PoroGaN platform has made it possible to produce a 614-625nm-wavelength  InGaN red display as well as 536-543nm InGaN green and 444-447nm  InGaN blue displays. At Touch Taiwan, the company will be  demonstrating how the platform facilitates emission across a wide spectrum of  wavelengths, from blue to green and into the reddest red ever natively produced  from InGaN. Recently, Porotech created what is claimed  to be the first micro-LED display based on native red InGaN – with an active  area of 0.55-inches diagonally and a resolution of 960×540. In early 2022, the  firm secured $20m Series A investment to accelerate global expansion and  mass production of its micro-LED products. Following the Touch Taiwan exhibition, Porotech  will introduce its dynamic pixel tuning capability to address the full color  spectrum at SID Display 2022 in San Jose, CA, USA. 