Wolfspeed’s silicon carbide power modules used in inverters of Lucid Air EV Wolfspeed Inc of Durham, NC, USA – which makes  silicon carbide materials as well as silicon carbide (SiC) and  gallium nitride (GaN) power-switching & RF semiconductor devices – says that automaker Lucid Motors has deployed its silicon carbide power device solutions in its high-performance pure-electric car  – the Lucid Air. Wolfspeed and Lucid  have a multi-year agreement for Wolfspeed to produce and supply silicon carbide devices. Lucid Air’s  inverters feature Wolfspeed’s XM3 silicon carbide  power modules. With low switching losses,  minimal resistance and high power density,  the XM3 power modules contribute to  the efficiency and power density of  Lucid’s 163lb, 670hp (74kg 500kW) electric motor. Picture:   Wolfspeed’s automotive-qualified 1200V  silicon carbide XM3 half-bridge power module. “Lucid’s  proprietary powertrain technology – engineered and produced in-house – is at  the core of what makes Lucid Air the  most advanced and most efficient luxury electric vehicle  in the world,” claims Eric Bach, senior VP  of product & chief engineer at  Lucid. “With the perfect blend of high performance and high efficiency,  Wolfspeed’s innovative silicon carbide  MOSFET power semiconductors are an ideal fit for Lucid’s advanced technology.” The Lucid Air  will be supplied with Wolfspeed’s silicon carbide  semiconductors from its Mohawk Valley  Fab in Marcy, NY. Set to open on 25 April,  the facility will be the world’s largest 200mm silicon carbide fabrication facility and dramatically expand  production capacity for Wolfspeed’s power devices. The partnership gives Lucid  access to increased capacity to better support its long-term automotive  production. “Lucid Motors is  an emerging leader in not only electric vehicles  but the entire automotive industry,” comments Wolfspeed’s CEO Gregg Lowe. “As  the world advances towards an all-electric future for transportation, silicon carbide technology is at the forefront of  the industry’s transition to EVs, enabling superior performance, range and  charge time,” he adds. “Our investment in the Mohawk Valley Fab ensures our customers, including Lucid, have  access to the advanced products they need to deliver innovative solutions to  the market.” 