Navitas GaN IC drives vivo’s first 8”-screen foldable smartphone GaN power integrated circuit firm Navitas  Semiconductor of El Segundo, CA, USA and Dublin, Ireland says that its next-generation GaNFast power ICs with GaNSense technology have been  selected to power vivo’s newly released, first folding-screen flagship ‘X Fold’ in-box 80W flash charger. The vivo X Fold adopts  a high-capacity 4600mAhr dual-battery solution charging 0-50% in just 17 minutes, and fully charged to 100% in  only 37 minutes. The X Fold features multiple technological  innovations, with Qualcomm Snapdragon 8+,  120Hz refresh rate, 3D ultrasonic dual-screen fingerprint  access, and the world's first 300,000-fold TUV reliability certification. As the first in-box GaN charger for a foldable phone, the  dual-output 80W USB-C charger supports vivo’s proprietary fast-charge protocol  and industry-standard USB-PD, with simultaneous fast charging of two devices. The new 80W, folding-pin, in-box  charger measures only 60mm x 41mm x 31mm (76cc), achieving a power density of over 1W/cc and a lightweight  125g. The full 80W power rating is  shared over the two output ports to  allow flexible, simultaneous charging of phones, tablets, audio and ultra-book  laptops. GaN runs 20x  faster than traditional silicon and enables up to 3x the power or 3x faster charging with up to 40% energy savings in just half the size and weight.  Navitas’ GaNFast power ICs integrate GaN power and drive plus sensing,  protection and control circuits to deliver simple, small, fast and efficient  power conversion performance for mobile, consumer, enterprise, eMobility and  new energy markets. Over 145 Navitas patents are issued or pending. The latest  generation of GaNFast ICs with  GaNSense technology integrates real-time, accurate and fast sensing of system  parameters, including current and temperature, and achieves patent-pending,  loss-less current-sensing to deliver an additional 10% energy savings. GaNSense  enables a ‘detect-to-protect’ time of only 30ns - 6x faster than discrete GaN  power chips for increased system reliability. For the X Fold’s 80W fast charger, Navitas’ NV6136A GaNFast power IC with GaNSense technology is used in a  high-frequency, quasi-resonant (HFQR) topology for optimal system price and  performance. “Using Navitas GaN technology, this charger will bring consumers a  breakthrough dual-port, faster and lighter charging experience,” says vivo’s  product line general manager Hong Yi. 