Penn State leading five-year, $7.5m study of radiation effects on wide-bandgap semiconductors Compared with conventional  silicon-based electronics, electronics employing wide-bandgap semiconductors  promise better resistance against radiation damage. So, to better predict and  mitigate radiation-induced damage of wide-bandgap semiconductors, the US  Department of Defense has awarded a five-year, $7.5m Defense Multidisciplinary University Research Initiative (MURI) Award to a  new national collaboration led by Penn State University. “Wide-bandgap  semiconductors, such as gallium nitride, have shown advantages over  silicon in radio frequency and power electronics,” notes Rongming  Chu, Thomas and Sheila Roell Early Career Associate Professor of  Electrical Engineering, who is spearheading the project. “They are also  inherently more resistant to radiation due to stronger atomic bonds.” This radiation  hardness protects against damage caused by radiation from high-energy rays and  particles, making wide-bandgap semiconductors promising candidates for building  electronics used in environments with significant radiation (such as outer  space), notes Chu. However, researchers have yet to reach the full potential of  radiation hardness in wide-bandgap semiconductor electronics. “Preliminary  studies have indicated that the radiation resistance appears to be limited by  defects in the semiconductors, rather than by the material’s intrinsic  properties,” Chu says. “In this project, we seek to understand the radiation  effects of these defects so that we may develop a strategy to redesign the  wide-bandgap semiconductor device for the ultimate radiation hardness.” Examples of  defects include unwanted impurities, displacement of atoms from their original  sites and dangling atomic bonds at the interface between dissimilar materials.  “There is a risk of these defects becoming electrically active under a high  electric field, with energetic electrons, causing detrimental effects to  device performance,” Chu says. “Today’s wide-bandgap semiconductor electronic  devices are designed such that this risk is minimized under normal operating  conditions. However, radiation can force the device out of its normal operating  condition by exciting additional energetic electrons interacting with the  pre-existing defects. It can also knock atoms out of their original positions,  modifying pre-existing defects and generating new defects.” To better  understand how radiation causes defect generation and evolution, how these  defects affect device operation and how to redesign future wide-bandgap devices  for the optimum radiation hardness, an interdisciplinary team is critical,  believes Chu. Collaborators include Patrick M. Lenahan, distinguished  professor of engineering science and mechanics; Miaomiao Jin, assistant professor  of nuclear engineering; and Blair R. Tuttle, associate professor of  physics (all from Penn State); and Tania Roy, University of Central Florida;  B. Reeja Jayan, Carnegie Mellon University, and Michael E. Flatté,  University of Iowa. Chu notes that, at Penn State, the team will leverage the  tools and experts affiliated with the Radiation Science and Engineering Center  and the Nanofabrication and Materials Characterization User Facilities at the  Materials Research Institute. “The strength of  our project comes from a combination of expertise: my research group’s  capabilities on gallium nitride devices, Dr Lenahan’s expertise in  defect spectroscopy, Dr Jin’s radiation damage modeling, Dr Tuttle’s  defect theory work, Dr Roy’s electrical characterization of radiation  effects, Dr Jayan’s defect structure characterization and Dr Flatté’s  transport theory work,” Chu says. “The teamwork also extends beyond the  investigators of this MURI project — especially Dr Michael Lanagan,  professor of engineering science and mechanics, who was very instrumental  in coordinating this multi-disciplinary team effort.” The grant will  support 16 graduate students, including 11 at Penn State, to perform  multi-disciplinary research encompassing physics, computation, materials  science and engineering, and electrical engineering as they pursue a variety of  master’s degrees and doctorates. “Not only will  the research prepare next-generation technologists to take on technical  challenges but, through our collaborative work with national laboratories and  industry stakeholders, the students will also learn the professional skills  needed to bridge fundamental research to real-world applications,” Chu says. 