Odyssey appoints Mark Davidson as CEO Odyssey Semiconductor Technologies Inc of  Ithaca, NY, USA, which is developing high-voltage vertical power switching  components based on proprietary gallium nitride (GaN) processing  technology, says that Mark  Davidson has joined it as CEO and member of the board of directors. He succeeds  co-founder Rick Brown, who served as interim CEO  since September 2021 and will continue as chief technology officer and board member. “Odyssey is on-track to deliver 1200V vertical GaN FETs in 2022  for a handful of customers who have already requested engineering samples,”  notes chairman John Edmunds. “Mark is known for his versatility to transform businesses into  highly successful operations - having spent nearly 20 years working in Silicon Valley,” comments Brown. “His  leadership and experience will help our company achieve its full potential,” he  reckons. Before joining Odyssey, Davidson was chief revenue officer of DreamVu, where he led  commercialization and spearheaded revenue generation from scratch, leading the  global sales expansion through his knowledge of global markets. Prior to DreamVu, Davidson was CEO of Range Networks, where he pivoted  its business model based on its technology leadership and the market  opportunity, not only resulting in a surge in revenue and profitability but  ultimately leading Range Networks to  be acquired by a fast-growing company. Davidson also has experience in power semiconductors. Previously, through  Intel’s acquisition of Altera Corp, he was Intel’s VP/general manager, Global Power Products business organization, where he directed the  transformation of a start-up company into a hyper-growth enterprise. Additionally,  he has served as Texas Instruments’ regional sales & applications  engineering director, National Semiconductor’s marketing director/product line director, Visteon Corp’s Australian customer liaison engineer, and Ford Motor  Company’s product design engineer.  He holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Electrical Engineering from Pennsylvania State University. 