Navitas joins PowerAmerica consortium GaN power integrated circuit firm Navitas  Semiconductor of El Segundo, CA, USA and Dublin, Ireland has announced its membership of PowerAmerica,  a public-private research initiative established in 2014 between industry, government, national labs and  academia dedicated to accelerating the adoption of wide-bandgap (WBG) silicon  carbide (SiC) and gallium nitride (GaN) power electronics. Navitas says that, as a member of PowerAmerica, it will provide  input into initiatives to help companies that use power semiconductors to  upgrade beyond legacy silicon, and access resources and relationships  contributing to business growth. GaN runs up to  20x faster than legacy silicon and enables up to 3x more power, 40% energy  savings and 3x faster charging in half the size and weight. Navitas’ GaNFast  power ICs integrate GaN power and  drive plus sensing, protection and control circuits to deliver simple, small,  fast and efficient power conversion  performance for mobile, consumer, enterprise, eMobility and new energy markets. Over 145 Navitas patents  are issued or pending. With adoption by customers including Samsung, Dell, Xiaomi, Lenovo  and LG, the firm’s technology is now available with a 20-year limited warranty,  which is reckoned to be a critical accelerator for GaN’s adoption into  higher-power data-center, solar and electric vehicle  (EV) markets. “The upgrade from legacy silicon to WBG semiconductors is critical  to supporting environmental goals by dramatically reducing power consumption  and accelerating the adoption of sustainable technologies,” says Navitas’ chief  operating officer/chief technology officer & co-founder Dan Kinzer. “The  consortium’s membership network of entrepreneurs, technologists and academic  partners is helping to drive this revolution and we are excited to be part of  this increasingly important eco-system.” Navitas’ senior director of marketing, Llew Vaughan-Edmunds, is  currently the chairman of PowerAmerica and will lead the MAC meeting during the  PowerAmerica 2022 Summer Workshop on NC State  Campus in Raleigh, NC on 2 August. At  the workshop, Navitas will host a technology seminar to introduce GaNFast power ICs with GaNSense technology, and stress  high-quality, high-capacity manufacturing, with over 40 million units shipped and zero reported GaN-related field failures. “With its proven integrated GaN technology and its focus on  applications that range from consumer electronics  through electric vehicles to data centers and solar power, Navitas brings  important technology and solutions knowledge to the PowerAmerica eco-system,”  comment PowerAmerica’s executive director & chief technology officer professor Victor Veliadis. 