POET joins SHINE Center for photonics integration as founding member POET Technologies Inc of Toronto, Ontario,  Canada — designer and developer of the POET Optical Interposer and  photonic integrated circuits (PICs) for the data-center and telecom  markets — has joined the  Singapore Hybrid-Integrated Next generation  micro-Electronics (SHINE) Center, located in the College of Design and  Engineering at the National University of Singapore (NUS), as a founding member. “The vision for SHINE comes from professor Aaron Thean, dean of  the College of Design and Engineering, with whom POET has worked for a number  of years on certain engineering challenges, and more recently professor Lim  Yeow Kheng, who joined the faculty about two years  ago from STATS ChipPAC Pte Ltd,”  says POET’s chairman & CEO Dr Suresh  Venkatesan. “SHINE brings together equipment and expertise that NUS and  companies in the consortium may use, independently and confidentially, to  develop advanced processes and manufacturing techniques for hybrid integration  of photonics devices,” he adds. “The systems, scientific instruments and engineering  staff at NUS complements well our existing operation in Singapore, especially  in the area of 2.5D and 3D semiconductor manufacturing. We plan to use the  SHINE Center to design and manufacture Optical Interposer-based  solutions for several new vertical markets, consistent with the mission of  SHINE, including applications in sensing and the Internet of Things  (IoT).” The mission of the SHINE Center is to address fundamental issues  arising in IoT microelectronics and to engage industry players during the  development cycle, to eventually translate the technology to industry. A team  formed by professors across the world from NUS, Singapore’s  Nanyang Technological University  (NTU), University of  California Berkeley (UCB) and Northeastern University in the USA, the Institute of Microelectronics (IME) at Singapore’s  Agency for Science, Technology and Research (A*STAR) and Singapore’s DSO National Laboratories (DSO) will be actively involved as research  participants. Other members of the consortium currently include Advanced Micro Foundry (AMF), Applied Materials, Cadence Design System, Continental Automotive and  SOITEC. James Lee, VP & general manager  of POET’s Singapore subsidiary, has played a key role in the conception of the  consortium and will lead several projects on behalf of the firm. SHINE is  expected to have a partnership launch and inaugural technical workshop in June. As a National Research Foundation-Future Systems & Technology  Directorate (NRF-FSTD)-funded heterogeneous integration R&D center, working  with A*STAR, SHINE aims to develop disruptive material-to-circuit solutions for  multi-chip integrated systems. The research center is focused on developing a  process and design platform that bridges across multiple size scales; from chip to large-area  substrates. Such innovations should translate to new IoT applications and  associated technologies like wearables, smart vehicles,  and space technologies. 