PhotonDelta gains €1.1bn funding, including €470m from Netherlands’ National Growth Fund Integrated photonics industry accelerator  PhotonDelta, a cross-border  ecosystem of photonic chip technology organizations, has secured €1.1bn in  public and private investment (subject to certain conditions, including: agreeing  a strategic partnership with a foundry; research activity connected with  applications of technology; and ongoing evaluation of PhotonDelta’s ecosystem).  As part of the Dutch Government’s national plan to cement and expand the  country’s position in integrated photonics, the investment includes €470m  obtained through the National Growth Fund (Nationaal Groeifonds), while the  rest is co-invested by various partners and stakeholders. The program will run for six years and enable PhotonDelta and its  partners to further invest in photonic startups and scaleups, expand production  and research facilities, attract and train talent, drive adoption, and develop  a design library. By 2030, PhotonDelta aims to have created an ecosystem with  hundreds of companies, serving customers worldwide and a wafer production  capacity of 100,000+ per year. Photonic integrated circuits (PICs) can overcome the expected  limit to Moore’s Law and will also help to tackle energy sustainability issues.  PICs are currently used in the data and telecom industry to reduce the energy  consumption per bit and increase speeds. With data and internet use expected to  comprise about 10% of global electricity consumption by 2027, PICs provide a  way to limit the impact on the climate. Photonic circuits will also soon play  an important role for innovative sensors that can be mass produced,  leading to earlier diagnostics of diseases, safe autonomous vehicles and  infrastructure, and more efficient food production. “The ongoing chip shortage highlights the pressing need for Europe  to create its own production capabilities for strategic technologies,” says  PhotonDelta’s CEO Ewit Roos. “We will now be able to support hundreds of  startups, researchers, producers and innovators to boost this industry that  will be as impactful as the introduction of microelectronics a few decades  ago,” he adds. “The Netherlands is considered a pioneer in the development of PIC  technology, and thanks to the continuous support from the Dutch government, we  have been able to build a full supply chain around it that is globally  recognized as a hotspot for photonic integration,” Roos continues. “Photonic  chips are one of the most important technological breakthroughs of the last  decade. Not only do they allow for the creation of devices that are faster,  cheaper, more powerful and greener - they also enable radical new innovations  like affordable point-of-care diagnostics or quantum computing to become a  reality.” The PhotonDelta proposal was submitted by the Netherland’s  Ministry of Economic Affairs & Climate Policy in collaboration  with Eindhoven University of Technology (TU/e), University of Twente (UT),  Delft University of Technology (TUD), Holst Centre, TNO (the Netherlands Organization for Applied Scientific  Research in Delft), IMEC, PITC (Photonic Integration  Technology Center), CITC (Chip Integration Technology Center),  OnePlanet, Smart Photonics, Lionix International, Effect Photonics,  MantiSpectra, PhotonFirst, Phix, and Bright Photonics. The PhotonDelta ecosystem currently consists of 26 companies, 11  technology partners and 12 R&D partners. The organization has so far  jointly invested €171m in promising photonics companies including Smart Photonics,  PhotonsFirst, Surfix, MicroAlign, Solmates and Effect Photonics. 