CompoundTek demos hybrid silicon O+C+L-band wavelength-tunable laser module At the recent LUX-Enterprise Singapore Copackaged Photonics/ASICs  & Heterogeneous Integration  Workshop, Singapore-based silicon photonic  (SiPh) foundry services provider CompoundTek Pte Ltd shared  results on a hybrid silicon O+C+L-band wavelength-tunable laser module that a  stealth-mode product company ran with  CompoundTek. Through the development of the hybrid silicon laser technology,  CompoundTek’s team – led by chief operating officer KS Ang  and principal engineer Dr Brian Sia together with key personnel  from the stealth-mode product company – is claimed to  be one of the first in the world to realise laser engines  that operate simultaneously in the O, C and L wavebands. The laser engines have a wavelength tuning range of  175nm across the three wavebands, with an output power and side-mode  suppression ratio (SMSR) as high as 40mW and 50dB, respectively. As a corollary to advanced silicon manufacturing, silicon  photonics has emerged as one of the fastest-growing technologies, says CompoundTek. However, due to the material  properties of silicon, the realisation of laser sources  has represented one of the final frontiers in the area. ‘Lighting up Silicon’  is thus a strategically imperative initiative that needs to be urgently  addressed, the firm adds. The primary advantage of a wavelength-tunable laser lies in its  ability to reduce the complexity of optical systems; a single  wavelength-tunable laser can be used to replace an array of single-wavelength  lasers, simplifying the system architecture as well as lowering inventory cost. While distributed feedback (DFB) laser arrays and micro-electro-mechanical  systems (MEMS) vertical-cavity surface-emitting lasers (VCSEL) have been shown  to demonstrate wavelength-tuning functionality, there are limitations in terms  of DFB array coupler loss and  mechanical instability, respectively. Littman/Littrow-configured  external-cavity lasers (ECLs) have also exhibited a wide operating wavelength  range; however the application space  of this class of lasers is limited by their bulk, as well as greater  vulnerability to environmental vibrations. “The challenge is for the development of a solid state-based laser diode with compact footprint, and good  performance that can be manufactured in a scalable, high-yield and low-cost  process,” says KS Ang. “While there  are many ways to build a tunable laser, what sets CompoundTek’s technology  apart is our ability to integrate with silicon photonics  devices which offer low propagation loss and high integration densities,” he  adds. 