Synopsys and Juniper forming firm to offer ‘laser-on-a-chip’ open silicon photonics platform Synopsys Inc of Mountain View, CA, USA ― which  provides electronic design automation (EDA) software, semiconductor IP and  services for chip and electronic system design ― and optical network provider Juniper Networks Inc of  Sunnyvale, CA, USA have  closed a transaction to form a new, separate company that will provide an open  silicon photonics platform to address the growing photonic requirements in  applications such as telecom, datacom, light detection & ranging (LiDAR),  healthcare, high-performance computing (HPC), artificial intelligence  (AI), and optical computing. The new firm’s open silicon photonics platform will include  integrated lasers, optical amplifiers, and a full suite of photonic  components to form a complete solution that will be accessible through a  process design kit (PDK). It is expected that the platform will enable a new  level of integration at an unmatched price point, with the lowest power  consumption for high-performance photonic integrated circuits (PICs). The new company will be jointly owned by Synopsys and Juniper,  with Synopsys as the majority owner. Its results will be consolidated into  Synopsys financials. While Synopsys expects the investment to be slightly  dilutive to fiscal 2022 earnings, the investment is not material and will not  affect its fiscal second-quarter and full-year 2022 guidance ranges provided on  16 February. There is no change to Juniper's  full year financial outlook. The new firm is being formed, in part, from the carve-out of  integrated silicon photonics assets from Juniper, which includes more than  200 patents on photonic device design and process integration. While part of  Juniper, the new company has closely collaborated with Tower Semiconductor to  develop and qualify Tower Semiconductor’s PH18DA process technology to enable  what is reckoned to be the industry’s first ‘laser-on-a-chip’ open  silicon photonics platform. To demonstrate capabilities of this platform  and accelerate customer adoption of the technology, the new firm has created  400G and 800G photonics reference designs with integrated lasers, and  expects first samples to be available this summer. “Silicon photonics is a rapidly growing market that is  transforming many industries and creating exciting opportunities for new  applications in the future,” says Sassine Ghazi,  president & chief operating officer at Synopsys. “The new company's  open silicon photonics platform, combined with Synopsys’ existing  investment in a unified electronic photonic design automation solution  consisting of OptoCompiler, OptSim, PrimeSim, Photonic Device Compiler and  IC Validator products, will help reshape the optical computing industry,  enabling companies to cost-effectively shift to integrated lasers and  significantly accelerate development of photonic IC designs,” he adds. “This revolutionary technology will change the economics of how  people are going to build photonic systems,” says Juniper’s CEO Rami Rahim. “We have been strong supporters of  integrated silicon photonics and we believe the new company will drive  development of these systems by using an advanced open platform that will  dramatically reduce costs and increase the performance and reliability of  designs across multiple use cases,” he adds. “We are excited to continue  to collaborate with the new company to enable a broad ecosystem to efficiently  develop next-generation optical transceiver and co-packaged designs.” A key challenge for silicon photonics has been the cost of  adding discrete lasers, which includes the manufacturing as well as the  assembly and alignment of those lasers onto the photonic chip. This becomes  more important as the number of laser channels and the overall bandwidth  increases. By processing the indium phosphide (InP) materials directly  onto the silicon photonics wafer, the PH18DA platform reduces the cost and  time of adding lasers, enabling volume scalability and improved power  efficiency. In addition, monolithically integrated lasers on silicon wafers  improves overall reliability and simplifies packaging. This ‘laser-on-a-chip’  open silicon photonics platform will bring integrated photonics to a host  of new applications and markets that were previously not thought possible. The  first multi-project wafer (MPW) is scheduled to be taped out in  second-quarter 2022. “We have had a long history of successful collaboration with Juniper  Networks on integrated photonics,” notes Tower Semiconductor’s CEO Russell Ellwanger. “The new company formed by  Synopsys and Juniper will strengthen and accelerate the adoption of the  silicon photonics platform,” he adds. “Providing an open silicon photonics  platform consisting of integrated lasers that has been qualified on Tower's  process will enable customers to create innovative products with the potential  to transform the industry.” 