ST’s 50W GaN converter enables high-efficiency power designs in consumer and industrial applications STMicroelectronics of Geneva, Switzerland says  that its VIPerGaN50  simplifies building single-switch flyback converters up to 50W and integrates a  650V gallium nitride (GaN) power transistor for superior energy efficiency and miniaturization. With its single-switch topology and high integration, including  current-sensing and protection circuitry also built-in, the VIPerGaN50 comes in  a compact and low-cost 5mm x 6mm package. The speed of the integrated  GaN transistor allows a high switching frequency  with a small and lightweight flyback transformer. Minimal additional external  components are needed to design an advanced, high-efficiency switched-mode  power supply (SMPS). The VIPerGaN50 helps designers to leverage GaN wide-bandgap  technology to meet increasingly stringent eco-design codes that target global  energy savings and net-zero carbon  emissions. It is suited to consumer and industrial applications such as power adapters, USB-PD chargers, and power supplies  for home appliances, air conditioners,  LED lighting equipment, and smart  meters. The converter operates in multiple modes to maximize efficiency at  all line and load conditions. At heavy load, quasi-resonant (QR) operation with  zero-voltage switching minimizes turn-on losses and electromagnetic emissions  (EMI). At reduced load, valley skipping  limits switching losses and  leverages ST’s proprietary valley lock to prevent audible noise. Frequency  foldback with zero-voltage switching ensures the highest possible efficiency at  light load, with adaptive burst mode  operation to minimize losses at very low load. In addition, advanced power management cuts standby power to below  30mW. Built-in features ensure safety and reliability, including output  over-voltage protection, brown-in and brown-out protection, and input over-voltage  protection. Input-voltage feedforward compensation is also provided, to  minimize output peak-power variation, as well as embedded thermal shutdown, and  frequency jittering to minimize EMI. The VIPerGaN50 is in production now and available in a 5mm x 6mm  QFN package, from $2.30 for orders of 1000 pieces. The device is in a  free-sample program and can be ordered on ST eSTore. 