Microcavity QCL in CW operation at +5C China’s Institute of Semiconductors claims the first continuous wave (CW) operation of microcavity quantum cascade lasers  (QCLs) up to a temperature of 5C at an emission wavelength of 8μm [Qiangqiang Guo et al, ACS Photonics, published online 14  March 2022]. The researchers comment: “The CW operating  temperature far exceeds the freezing point and makes it possible to produce  portable systems for use outside a laboratory environment.” The team sees  prospects for use in photonic integrated circuits, on-chip sensing, and  microcavity frequency combs. The researchers fabricated QCL material  from solid-source molecular beam epitaxy on indium phosphide (InP) into high  quality factor (Q) notched elliptical whispering gallery mode (WGM) electromagnetic  (EM) resonators (Figure 1).  Figure  1: Structure and design of CW microcavity QCL: (a) schematic; (b) calculated  mode distribution; (c) simulated three-dimensional temperature profiles. The 40-stage QCL consisted of layers of  indium gallium arsenide (InGaAs) and indium aluminium arsenide. InGaAs was also  used for optical confinement. Since the excited EM modes are concentrated  at the periphery of the structure, electrical isolation was introduced in the  middle of the structure in the form of semi-insulating InP produced through  iron (Fe) doping. The researchers explain: “This reduces the overall injection  current, thereby reducing the operating temperature in the active region.  Theoretically, this design can eliminate the most unnecessary thermal  dissipation, which is the primary limiting factor for CW operation of  microcavity QCLs, and simultaneously provide a horizontal channel for the heat  dissipation in the active region.” The Fe-doped InP, produced by wet etching  to the upper confinement layer and regrowth, was also close in refractive index  to the cladding layers. The sidewalls of the device were optionally passivated  with silicon dioxide to suppress leakage current through thermally activated  surface states. The ellipse’s aspect ratio was 1.2 with a  semi-minor axis length of 80μm.  The wavelength-scale notch – 2.5μm width, 1.6μm  depth – was located at the intersection of the minor axis with the boundary.  The Fe-doped InP material had a 65μm semi-minor axis. The electrical isolation scheme was found  to more than double the slope efficiency in pulse-mode operation. Passivating  the devices with silicon dioxide severely reduced peak output power and  increased the threshold current. This was attributed to high optical loss of  the passivation at wavelengths above 7μm. The output wavenumber was around 1250/cm, which corresponds to  8μm wavelength. 