Lumentum launches series of multi-junction 905nm VCSEL arrays for advanced mobility and industrial applications Lumentum Holdings Inc of San Jose, CA, USA (which designs and  makes photonics products for optical networks and lasers for industrial and  consumer markets) has  announced the M Series of multi-junction vertical-cavity surface-emitting  laser (VCSEL) arrays for next-generation automotive, industrial light detection  & ranging (LiDAR) and 3D sensing applications, and availability of the  first M Series product, the M51-100 905nm 70W multi-junction VCSEL array. Lumentum’s  automotive-qualified, high-performance M Series features peak powers  suited for short- and long-range advanced mobility and industrial LiDAR  applications. In addition to higher available power densities, extensive  accelerated life testing of the multi-junction M Series has shown the  same high reliability as single-junction VCSEL devices already in volume  production. The firm says that the M Series is easily integrated into  customer platforms and can replace edge-emitting lasers in existing  mechanically scanned systems or arrayed into configurable illumination sources  for addressable, solid-state electronic scanning LiDAR systems. VCSELs provide  advantages in efficiency, scalability and reliability that are essential to the  accelerating rate of innovation in automotive and industrial LiDAR and  3D sensing applications, adds the company. “The Lumentum  M Series enables automotive and industrial customers to accelerate the  development of next-generation LiDAR systems,” says Alex Ju, product line  manager for 3D sensing. “The M51-100, with its extremely small size, is a  versatile solution applicable to a wide range of customer systems,” he adds. 
  “We are  continuing to build upon our leadership in multi-junction technology that we  have developed over the past several years,” says Matt Peters, senior director  of R&D for 3D sensing. “The new M Series products provide  customers with highly differentiated performance and reliability in devices  that address a wide range of LiDAR system architectures.” LiDAR and  3D sensing are increasingly used in advanced mobility and industrial  applications. Automotive LiDAR enables autonomy at multiple levels, from  advanced adaptive cruise control (ACC) capabilities to fully autonomous  vehicles (AVs). In-cabin driver and occupant monitoring systems are  becoming standard parts of vehicle safety systems and are continuously  improving and adding new features, such as biometric recognition. In addition,  LiDAR is advancing factory automation and being used to optimize performance,  safety and cost in industrial environments, including autonomous mobile robots,  automated guided vehicles (AGVs), and last-mile delivery vehicles.  