LED lighting market growing at 8.4% to $11.1bn in 2026 According to TrendForce’s ‘Global LED Industry Data Base and LED Player Movement  Quarterly Update’ report, demand for high-standard LED products in the lighting  market is entering a growth stage. Generally speaking, the price of lighting  LED products is stable. However, due to the recent rise in global raw material prices, the unit price of products looks to be  trending higher. Coupled with high demand for energy conservation from  governments around the world, the output value of the lighting LED market in  2022 is forecast grow by 9.2% year-on-year to $8.11bn. In the next few years,  the scale of the lighting LED market will continue growing due to the promotion  of human-centric lighting (HCL), smart lighting  and other factors, and is estimated to be rising at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 8.4% from 2021 to  $11.1bn in 2026, adds the report.  TrendForce further states that, despite the continuing impact of  the COVID-19 pandemic in 2022, the pervasiveness of vaccines and the recovery  of economic activity coupled with the rigid demand associated with the lighting  market as a daily necessity, global ‘carbon neutrality’, and the growing  requirements of the energy conservation  agenda, have moved numerous major powers to realize net-zero emission through  measures such as energy efficiency  and low-carbon heating in recent years. However, lighting is a leading energy consumer in buildings,  accounting for 20-30% of total building energy consumption. LED penetration  will hence deepen, driven by high demand for energy conservation and policies and regulations requiring the  upgrade of aging equipment. In addition, smart lighting can also achieve the  purpose of timely energy conservation.  Therefore, there is strong demand for the introduction of LED lighting and  smart lighting upgrades in  commercial lighting, residential lighting, outdoor lighting and industrial  lighting, which further drives demand for high-standard LED products including  high light efficiency, high  color rendering and color  saturation, low blue-light human-centric lighting and smart lighting devices. The gradual recovery of the lighting market is clearly reflected  in the 2021 manufacturer revenue rankings. Lighting LED manufacturers including  Samsung LED, ams OSRAM, Cree LED, Lumileds, Seoul  Semiconductor, MLS, and Lightning have all posted revenue growth. MLS is still  the leading manufacturer of lighting LEDs, ranking first in revenue, with an  annual revenue growth rate  of 34% in 2021. ams OSRAM,  Lumileds, Cree LED and  Samsung LED primarily took  advantage of orders for industrial, outdoor and horticultural lighting last year,  posting annual revenue growth of 26%, 18% and 8%, respectively.  In terms of pricing, as demand in the lighting  industry gradually recovered in 2021, facing demand for higher-specification  terminal application products and the impact of rising overall costs in raw materials and operations,  LED packaging factories no longer adopted pricing strategies to capture  additional market share,  allowing lighting LED product pricing to stabilize and rebound in 2021. In terms of product categories, the average  market price of medium- and low-power lighting LED products (less than 1W,  excluding 1W) such as 2835 LED, 3030 LED and 5630 LED, posted an annual  growth rate of 2.1-4.4%. For high-power lighting LED products (above 1W) such  as ceramic substrate  LEDs and 7070 LEDs,  average annual market price growth was as much as 3-6%. TrendForce expects  lighting LED pricing to further stabilize in first-half 2022. 