New ams OSRAM green laser diode offers 4x higher perceived brightness than red lasers used in industrial equipment ams OSRAM of Premstaetten, Austria has introduced a green laser diode  that is said to be a brighter, easier-to-use, more reliable and  cost-competitive replacement for red lasers in applications such as levelling,  scanning, biosciences and dot projection. The new PLT5 522EA_Q is  an edge-emitting laser with a tightly controlled beam. Its peak output power is 20mW, at a typical peak emission  wavelength of 520nm and a spectral bandwidth of 2nm. The laser diode can be used in either  continuous-wave or pulsed mode. The PLT5 522EA_Q for  the first time, it is claimed, enables product makers to benefit from the 4x  brighter appearance of a green laser compared to red without sacrificing any of  the valuable features of red lasers. The green laser diode has been rigorously tested for lifetime and  reliability at a maximum operating temperature of 70°C. Its lifetime ratings  are compatible with the standard requirements of industrial equipment  manufacturers. “The much better visibility of green laser beams compared to red  means that they are preferred by users in industrial applications such as  construction and surveying, and for long-range scanning,” says senior marketing manager Thomas Brandes. “The introduction  of the PLT5 522EA_Q enables  manufacturers to finally replace red lasers with green without compromising on  any aspect of their product design.” The new laser diode is housed in a hermetically sealed and  grounded TO56 metal can. It is  compatible with the driver topologies commonly used with red lasers, and  simplifies the use of green lasers, requiring minimal modification of existing  product designs. Unlike a red laser diode, the PLT5 522EA_Q  needs no burn-in. It includes a photodiode, which is often required for  eye-safe operation. ams OSRAM offers  customers technical support to assist integration into end-product designs.  Support includes help with driver integration, optics, thermal evaluation and  with application-specific lifetime calculations. Samples of the PLT5 522EA_Q  are available now from any authorized distributor. 