Alter Technology opens Photonics Design Centre at University of Strathclyde As part of TÜV NORD Group (one of  Germany’s largest technical service providers), Alter Technology TÜV NORD – which  provides micro- and optoelectronics services in engineering, procurement,  assembly and test for the space and harsh-environment sectors – has  opened a Photonics Design Centre in  Glasgow, Scotland, at the University of Strathclyde, to accelerate the  commercialization of photonic products into quantum technology and space  markets. Based in Strathclyde’s Technology & Innovation Centre (TIC) in  Glasgow City Innovation District, the  centre will support Alter Technology Group’s  development of highly integrated, miniaturized and robust photonic products to  be used in quantum-enabled positioning, navigation and timing systems and  photonic-based satellite optical communications. Over the next 3-5 years, the group will allocate about €6m to the  Design Centre and its UK  manufacturing site in Livingston, West Lothian, to fund equipment, facilities,  personnel and other R&D costs. Its existing manufacturing site will also benefit from additional  investment in associated robotic-based manufacturing equipment and processes  for photonic products. The centre’s engineering team is already working on projects and  customer requests, and expects to move into its new Glasgow facility in May.  The Fraunhofer Centre for Applied Photonics  (CAP) and Strathclyde’s Institute of Photonics – key partners for Alter  Technology – are based within the same building, with the Physics Department  teams nearby. The opening of the new centre complements the current global  manufacturing, test, qualification and sales operations of the group. “I am delighted that Alter Technology has chosen to open its new  Photonics Design Centre within the  TIC building in Glasgow City  Innovation District,” says professor Sir Jim McDonald, principal & vice-chancellor  of Strathclyde. “Our Department of Physics has an internationally leading  capability in Photonics and Quantum Optics, and was ranked first in the UK for  Physics research in the Times Higher Education’s  analysis of the last national research assessment exercise – with 93% of its  submissions rated as world-leading,” he adds. “As a key and valued partner of  the university, Alter Technology’s co-location with the Fraunhofer CAP, our own Institute of Photonics and  the Department of Physics will provide many benefits for the company and be a  real boost to the Scottish Photonics industry, the wider Scottish academic  sector and the growing innovation ecosystem in Glasgow.” “There were a number of factors that played an important role in  convincing us to select the Technology and Innovation Centre as the location  for our Photonic Design Centre,”  says Alter Technology TUV Nord UK’s CEO Stephen Duffy. “The key reasons  were the importance of the local photonics and quantum eco-system, access to  skills, and proximity to our key partners at Fraunhofer UK and the research, innovation and leadership in quantum  technology that takes place in the Physics Department at Strathclyde.” A Quantum Technology Cluster is embedded in the Glasgow City Innovation District (CGID), an  initiative driven by Strathclyde along with Glasgow City Council,  Scottish Enterprise, Entrepreneurial Scotland and Glasgow Chamber of Commerce.  GCID is envisaged as a global place for quantum industrialization, attracting  companies to co-locate, accelerate growth, improve productivity and access  research technology and talent at Strathclyde. To date, Strathclyde has  invested more than £110m in its Technology and Innovation Zone, which has  become the heart of the District. Strathclyde is the only academic institution that has been a  partner in all four Engineering and Physical Sciences  Research Council (EPSRC)-funded  Quantum Technology Hubs in both  phases of funding, in: Sensing and Timing; Quantum Enhanced  Imaging; Quantum Computing and  Simulation, and, Quantum Communications Technologies. 