Lumentum and Ambarella unveil joint reference design combining edge AI and privacy for smarter building automation and occupancy sensor systems Lumentum Holdings Inc of San Jose, CA,  USA (which designs and makes photonics products for optical networks and lasers  for industrial and consumer markets) and edge artificial intelligence  (AI) vision semiconductor and software company  Ambarella Inc of Santa Clara, CA, have announced a new joint  reference design that combines edge  artificial intelligence (AI) with  privacy, enabling new possibilities for smart building  applications. Called Vision-D and available now, the design combines Lumentum’s  flood illuminator module for  extremely accurate time-of-flight (ToF) 3D sensing  with Ambarella’s CV22 edge AI SoC  (system-on-chip). This combination allows small AIoT sensors with local  processing to be blanketed across buildings for applications such as occupancy monitoring, intelligent space management and smart retail.  Additionally, ToF 3D sensing  maintains privacy by generating a point cloud  with granular 3D information, but  without any personally identifiable information, for applications such as  healthcare and eldercare. According to MarketsandMarkets, the occupancy sensor market will  rise at a compound annual growth rate  (CAGR) of 13.3% from $1.9bn in 2020 to $3.6bn by 2025. The vast majority of  these systems are based on passive infrared sensors  (PIRs) that provide only basic information about occupants and the building  environment, while a small number are using cameras that capture identifiable  features. The new joint reference design  is reckoned to open up possibilities for adding intelligent sensing with AI  processing smarts at the edge, while offering privacy and avoiding the high  cost of cloud computing. Integrating intelligence directly onto these sensing  nodes allows functionality and scalability, such as the creation of digital  twins for automated real-time space utilization or hot desking in shared workspaces. Other applications include  traffic-based hospitality staffing, cleaning and maintenance alerts to address  the labor shortage, and maximized energy efficiency  through the fine-tuned usage of HVAC and lighting systems. “There are currently two choices for occupancy sensing in building  automation systems — basic motion-detection devices that preserve privacy, or  intelligent camera-based systems that compromise privacy,” says Jerome Gigot,  senior director of marketing at Ambarella. “This joint reference design combines Lumentum’s  high-performance flood illuminator  module with our CVflow edge AI SoC  to provide a novel solution for digital transformation that protects occupant  privacy,” he adds. “The use of sophisticated building automation and occupant monitoring solutions is expanding  rapidly, driven by home healthcare and monitoring for the world’s growing  senior population, efficient building usage with hybrid work schedules, and other increasingly  important applications,” says Ken Huang, director of product line management at Lumentum. “This  innovative reference design uniquely  addresses key requirements of building automation and occupant monitoring systems by providing rich data sets and processing power while being  unobtrusive in terms of both size and privacy.” In addition to supporting multiple image sensor inputs,  Ambarella’s CV22 SoC also offers a rich set of peripheral interfaces for a  broad range of other sensors — including humidity, temperature and audio — to  enhance environmental perception. The Lumentum 10W flood illuminator module incorporates a high-performance,  three-junction vertical-cavity surface-emitting laser (VCSEL) array for ToF 3D sensing. The Vision-D reference design  provides a versatile platform for a wide range of applications in smart building automation, healthcare, smart retail and home security. Examples  include smart PIRs for home security that are able to differentiate pets from  intruders; hotel environmental and scheduling systems that can intelligently  adjust the HVAC temperature in reserved rooms based on real-time occupancy; and  remote monitoring of aging parents without invading their privacy. Regardless  of the location, AI algorithms running on this reference design can monitor occupants for sudden falls or medical  events, intelligently and immediately triggering a request for emergency  services. Customers can also leverage the broad set of tools and ecosystem  partners from both companies to further accelerate time to market. 