II-VI’s 940nm VCSEL flood illuminator modules compliant with AEC-Q102 for automotive in-cabin applications Engineered materials and optoelectronic component  maker II-VI Inc of Saxonburg, PA, USA, which provides depth sensing  technology, says that its 940nm vertical-cavity surface-emitting laser (VCSEL)  flood illuminator modules have been  qualified to the Automotive Electronics  Council’s AEC-Q102 quality standard for automotive in-cabin applications. US and European transportation safety regulators are increasingly  recommending or requiring driver and occupancy monitoring systems in vehicles,  fueling the demand for next-generation 2D and 3D infrared cameras designed with  higher-performance infrared illuminators. II-VI says that its new VCSEL flood illuminator modules emit higher optical  power with a narrower spectral width than infrared LEDs currently used in  existing driver monitoring systems,  enabling substantial improvements in 2D imaging performance. The infrared light  emitted from II-VI’s flood illuminator  modules can be modulated to frequencies greater than 100MHz, making them  suitable for high-resolution 3D time-of-flight (ToF) cameras for driver and  occupancy monitoring systems. “Our new VCSEL flood illumination modules meet the stringent  quality requirements of automotive applications and offer great value to our  customers through our vertical integration of VCSEL chips, photodiodes and  diffuser optics,” says Dr Julie  Sheridan Eng, senior VP,  Optoelectronic Devices & Modules business unit.  “We are also leveraging our in-house, 6-inch, gallium arsenide semiconductor laser technology platform to achieve  economies of scale.” II-VI says that its VCSELs and flood modules achieve a very high  power-conversion efficiency and are available in surface-mount packages  integrated with diffuser optics with either a narrow (60°x45°) or wide  (140°x110°) field of view. The modules operate over the wide temperature range  of -40°C to 105°C. II-VI’s portfolio of products for sensing includes infrared VCSEL  chips with one or up to hundreds of elements. The firm also offers thin-film  filters and diffractive optical elements  (DOEs), including lenses, microlens arrays, diffusers and splitters, that are  produced at wafer scale for  high-volume applications. 