TRUMPF presents new generation of 940nm single-mode and multi-mode VCSELs TRUMPF Photonic Components GmbH of Ulm,  Germany (part of the TRUMPF Group) – which manufactures vertical-cavity  surface-emitting lasers (VCSELs) and photodiodes for the consumer electronics,  datacoms, industrial sensing, heating and automotive markets – is  presenting new VCSEL solutions to expand its portfolio for 3D sensing  in consumer and industrial applications. The new-generation 940nm VCSEL  arrays enable improvements in various functionalities combined with high  reliability performance such as long product lifetime at a broad temperature  range. The new VCSEL generation therefore leads to better results in optical  applications such as proximity sensing, laser auto-focus applications  or under organic light-emitting diode (OLED) display sensing. TRUMPF also addresses the trend of  all-screen-display in high-end consumer electronics, and the challenge of  system designers to place advanced optical sensing technologies beneath the  displays. Furthermore, the new generation is a suitable light source  for advanced industrial and automotive time-of-flight (ToF) applications. “It was back in 2015  when the first TRUMPF VCSEL, and the first VCSEL at all, was put into a  smartphone for proximity sensing,” says Ralph Gudde, VP marketing  & sales. “Our innovation leadership is substantiated by over 1.6 billion  VCSELs shipped out since then, to enable 3D sensing and illumination in  smartphones.” To enhance the quality in proximity  sensing and laser auto-focus applications, the new single-mode 940nm VCSEL  array consists of 12 quadratic emission zones to generate a high output power  of 18mW. Optical application design becomes significantly easier thanks to the  absolutely symmetrical and Gaussian-shaped beam profile, TRUMPF  says. The device performance remains single-mode even when operated at  nanosecond pulses, and stable output power performance over lifetime is  ensured by the robust design.  Picture:       New generation of 940nm-emitting VCSEL array with 12 emitters for high  optical output power  to enhance the quality in proximity sensing and laser auto-focus applications. A second new product (to be  launched soon) is a multi-mode VCSEL that comes with controllable polarization.  The feature of stable and advanced linear polarization improves the  illumination quality and resolution in demanding 3D illumination  applications such as optical sensing through OLED displays. This new multi-mode  940nm VCSEL comes with two emission zones that generate an optical power of  8mW. TRUMPF has developed the patented technology of VCSELs with stable  polarization for high-volume applications. The polarization is locked by a  surface grating  etched directly into the gallium arsenide (GaAs). Due to the  optimized grating design the new polarized VCSELs achieve almost 100% of  the efficiency compared with standard non-polarized VCSELs. “With our expanded portfolio of  single- and multi-mode, high-power and polarization-controlled VCSEL products,  we are well positioned to serve the demanding 3D sensing and  illumination applications not only in smartphones but also in virtual-reality  (VR) and augmented-reality (AR) as well as industrial and automotive  applications,” reckons Gudde. TRUMPF Photonic Components is exhibiting in booth 341 (hall A6) at LASER World of Photonics 2022 in Munich, Germany (26-29 April). 