SiC device market growing at 34% CAGR from $1.09bn in 2021 to $6.3bn in 2027 The global  silicon  carbide (SiC) device market is rising at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 34% from $1.09bn in 2021 to $6.3bn by 2027,  estimates market research and strategy  consulting firm Yole Développement in its latest annual report ‘Power SiC  2022’. “Strongly driven by automotive applications,  especially in the electric vehicle (EV) main inverter, there were multiple newly  released EVs and announcements in 2020 and 2021, following Tesla’s adoption of  SiC,” says Poshun Chiu, technology & market analyst specializing in  Compound Semiconductor & Emerging Substrates, at Yole. “Moreover, Tesla’s  record shipments helped SiC devices to reach the order of $1bn in 2021,” he  adds. “To fulfill the demand for a long driving range, an 800V EV is the  solution to empower fast direct current (DC) charging. This is where the 1200V SiC devices play crucial roles.” As of  2022, BYD’s Han-EV and Hyundai’s Ioniq-5 have enjoyed good sales by offering  fast charging. More OEMs – such as Nio, XPeng, etc – plan to bring SiC EVs to the market in 2022.  Apart  from automotive applications, industrial and energy applications – such as deployment  of high-power charging infrastructure with SiC modules, and the growing  installation of photovoltaics – represent markets with a growth rate of more  than 20% during the forecast period. Among  the top SiC device players, STMicroelectronics and Wolfspeed grew their SiC  revenue more than 50% year-on-year in 2021, aligning  with the 57% growth in the global SiC device market. Infineon  Technologies achieved 126% growth by entering the main inverter business, based  on industrial applications. onsemi also entered the game, yielding strong  growth in 2021.  As  these companies grow SiC into billion-dollar businesses, competition in the  coming years can also be identified in supply chain integration. The major players have chosen IDM business  models, and multiple mergers and acquisitions (M&As) and partnerships in  silicon carbide have reshaped the  SiC ecosystem. They aim to secure their wafer supply and enter the device  business to sustain their billion-dollar business objectives in the years to  come, adds Yole. The  next level for players to compete in is the SiC module, and Yole has identified  new products being released for automotive, industrial, and energy  applications. On 28  April, Dr Peter Friedrich (vice president  SiC at Infineon Technologies) together with Poshun Chiu (technology & market analyst specializing in  Compound Semiconductor & Emerging Substrates at Yole) and Amine Allouche (technology & cost analyst at System Plus  Consulting) will answer questions during a Yole webcast ‘SiC evolution: Cars drive a multi-billion dollar business’. 