EU-funded project INSPIRE combining SiN and InP PICs with wafer-scale micro-transfer printing After receiving nearly €5m in funding from the  European°Union’s Horizon°2020 research and innovation program (under grant  agreement n°101017088), the project  INSPIRE was officially launched on 1 January. Coordinated by Technical University of  Eindhoven (TU/e) in the Netherlands and including imec, Thales, University of Cambridge, X-Celeprint,  SMART Photonics, and Amires, the  INSPIRE project consortium aims to  change how photonic integrated°circuit  (PIC) devices are fabricated in order to make them suitable for applications  beyond communications (such as healthcare or sensing) and to speed up their  large-scale production (overcoming existing limitations on scalability and  high-throughput manufacturing). In recent years  there has been an upsurge in the use of photonic  devices, based on materials including silicon, silicon°nitride (SiN) and  indium°phosphide (InP), particularly for data°transfer applications, notes TU/e. While these devices have the  potential for wider impact in other fields like sensors used in aircraft or  communication devices, their uptake is limited since different materials need  to be effectively combined to meet performance requirements. For example,  high-performance fiber°sensors used in infrastructure monitoring and microwave  signal processing in radar systems require both low-noise operation and  ultra-low degradation of signals. This can only be achieved through a  combination of materials in the manufacturing process. If this manufacturing  process can be properly scaled to allow large-scale production, it is expected  that these photonic devices can have a major impact on sensing applications. To facilitate  the combination of these high-performance III-V optoelectronic materials in  photonic devices, INSPIRE is developing wafer-scale micro-transfer printing  technologies. In  micro-transfer printing, devices are first made on a source wafer, then  transferred to a target wafer (see image). This printing concept has been  established and widely applied by project partner X-Celeprint to different  wafers and materials. The INSPIRE project is focusing on the next step:  parallel device printing with accurate placement where many integrated devices  can be printed at the same time.  The INSPIRE  micro-transfer printing technology will be validated for three specific cases:  fiber°sensors to measure stress, strain and temperature for use in airplane  safety measures; a microwave photonic radio°frequency (RF) pulse generator with  application in radar and wireless communication; and optical switches for  energy-efficient data°centers. Compact versions of the III-V optoelectronic  components will be developed, enabling designers to use this platform for a  wide range of applications. INSPIRE aims  to consolidate established fabrication approaches, such as those from pure-play  foundry and TU/e spinoff SMART Photonics and the silicon photonics pioneer  imec, with the micro-transfer printing technology of X-Celeprint. This should  result in a world-first fabrication platform that combines the strengths of two  of the most well-known PIC manufacturing platforms. Methods will chiefly be  developed for the coupling of SiN and InP processes, but could also be used for  silicon-based photonics. “By combining  SMART and imec technologies, with only minor changes to the fabrication  processes, we can leverage the major investments in the development of these  platforms from the last decade,” says INSPIRE coordinator professor Martijn  Heck of Eindhoven University of Technology. “We can thus significantly reduce  the time needed to transfer our technology out of the lab, and make a faster  and telling impact in new application areas,” he reckons. The potential  of the INSPIRE approach is demonstrated by the participation of industrial  partners such as Dr°Jerome Bourderionnet of THALES: “The INSPIRE platform  enables high-performance building°blocks, such as low-linewidth lasers, which  are at the heart of THALES’ applications for optical signal processing at  large, or sensing integrated systems,” he says. INSPIRE aims  to create a full-function PIC platform, compatible with open-access pilot  manufacturing, and with an order-of-magnitude lower cost for volume production. The INSPIRE  consortium says that its generic approach makes the technology widely  applicable and ensures that European innovators can focus their R&D  directly on manufacturing platforms. As a result, it should take a shorter time  to bring these PIC technologies to market. 