ams OSRAM selling Automotive Lighting Systems business to Plastic Omnium ams OSRAM of Premstaetten, Austria has agreed to sell its independent AMLS  (Automotive Lighting Systems GmbH)  business to Plastic Omnium for €65m. With about 770 staff at nine locations worldwide (including 120  engineers working in five dedicated R&D facilities), AMLS generated €148m in  revenue in 2021. Headquartered in France, Plastic Omnium is a strongly growing  automotive tier-1 supplier group with 30,000 staff serving a global customer  base, and annual revenue of €8bn in 2021. The transaction represents a further step in the implementation of  ams OSRAM’s strategy to focus on  dedicated strategic core technology and to divest businesses that are not seen  as core to the corporate strategy. ams OSRAM  will continue to be a key supplier of automotive LEDs and optical components to  Plastic Omnium. This deal does not include other ams OSRAM technologies and products for automotive OEM and the  automotive after-market. ams OSRAM Automotive  Lighting Systems was established on 1 October  2021 following the dissolution of the OSRAM Continental  joint venture. Headquartered in  Munich, Germany, AMLS combines lighting technology with electronics and software  to develop smart full lighting systems for the automotive industry. ams OSRAM will continue  to provide the high-tech innovation in components for automotive, including  automotive lighting, covering the entire light spectrum – from visible to  invisible light – and sensing applications for the automotive industry. This  includes key automotive technology to support optical applications such as  driver and interior monitoring, dynamic and static exterior lighting, RGB interior lighting, light detection & ranging  (LiDAR) for autonomous driving and advanced driver-assistance systems (ADAS),  head-up displays, and gesture sensing. “Our portfolios are highly complementary; together we expect to  expand our market access and we share a similar mission and mindset,” says  AMLS’ general manager Dr Dirk Linzmeier. “We look forward to  joining Plastic Omnium to establish a strong mobility lighting player built on AMLS’ portfolio of innovative  technologies,” he adds. “The acquisition of AMLS is a unique opportunity to take an  important step into the growing innovative lighting systems segment,” says Plastic  Omnium’s CEO Laurent Favre. “Thanks to its advanced product portfolio, strong expertise, balanced  footprint and the quality of its team, this acquisition will allow Plastic  Omnium to accelerate its ambitious strategy to meet growing OEM customer demand  for smart body car parts and opens up the potential to enter new market  segments.” The transaction is expected to be finalized in third-quarter 2022,  subject to customary closing conditions. 