N-polar InGaN LEDs with record output power University of California Santa Barbara  (UCSB) in the USA claims record high power of up to 0.21mW at 20mA current  injection for nitrogen-polar indium gallium nitride (InGaN) LEDs grown by metal-organic  chemical vapor deposition (MOCVD) [Vineeta R.  Muthuraj et al, Appl. Phys. Lett., v120, p101104, 2022].  The devices produced blue to blue-green light with wavelengths between 470nm  and 506nm. Although Ga-polar devices generate higher  light output power, there are a number of properties of N-polar material that  could be handy in future development. For starters, N-polar GaN more easily  incorporates indium, potentially allowing longer wavelengths to be reached. In  addition, charge transport is better, offering opportunities to reduce  efficiency droop at high current injection. Unfortunately, up to now N-polar  devices have only managed up to 20μW at 20mA injection. Another unusual feature of the UCSB devices  was the use of an inverted structure with the p-type layers buried underneath  the light-emitting quantum wells (QWs). This allows better quality p-GaN to be  grown at a higher temperature, but creates problems for activating the  magnesium (Mg) doping, which is passivated by hydrogen, impossible to avoid in  MOCVD processes. Vias were drilled by etching into the material to allow  hydrogen to escape during thermal annealing from the buried p-GaN layers. The normal p-GaN-on-top structure is  restricted in growth temperature by the imperative not to thermally degrade the  underlying InGaN QWs. The resulting p-GaN material tends to have a high  resistance to current flow. In the inverted structure, relatively  low-resistance n-GaN can be achieved with a lower growth temperature. Electrical power to inject holes into the  QW active region was supplied through a thin tunnel junction with n-type  material.  Figure  1: Epitaxial structure of inverted N-polar LED with doping levels obtained from  secondary-ion mass spectrometry (SIMS). 