Smartphone production forecast for 2022 downgraded from 1.38 billion to 1.366 billion units after weak Q1 demand Due to  lower-than-expected sales in fourth-quarter 2021, the smartphone market in  first-quarter 2022 not only needed to adjust its accumulated inventory of  finished products but it was also affected by sluggish seasonal demand,  resulting in relatively weak Q1/2022 production performance, according to market research  firm TrendForce. Coupled with the impact of  recent events such as the Russian-Ukrainian war and lockdowns of Chinese  cities, overall production performance in first-half 2022 will weaken,  affecting total production in 2022. The original forecast of 1.38 billion  units produced will be downgraded to 1.366 billion units, with the annual  growth rate slipping to 2.5%. Neither the COVID-19 pandemic nor the shortage of  wafer production capacity has been significantly alleviated. This, coupled with  serious issues involving geopolitics, inflation and energy shortages this year,  will generate variables in the smartphone market for 2022. Therefore, further  downward revision of total 2022 production volume cannot be ruled out. There are two key  observations regarding the impact of the war on the smartphone market. First,  brand sales have been suspended or have dropped sharply. According to  TrendForce statistics, mobile phone sales in Russia and Ukraine account  for 3-4% of global market share, 85% of which are in the Russian market,  with Samsung, Xiaomi and Apple as the top three Russian mobile phone  brands. Since Apple and Samsung announced the suspension of all exports to  Russia, vacated market share will migrate to Chinese brands. If the war  can be brought under control before the end of April, the estimated impact on  the smartphone market in 2022 will be about 20 million units. Second, the war has  exacerbated global inflation, which is strongly affecting energy and food  prices in particular and is rapidly spreading from Europe to the world. This  also implies that personal disposable income will shrink simultaneously,  resulting in a prolonged replacement cycle in the smartphone market and  phenomena such as falling budgets for stand-alone purchases. Due to inflation’s  broad and profound influence, it is not yet possible to determine the extent of  its impact on the global smartphone market but there is indeed a high risk of  downward revisions in the future. It should be noted, in  addition to the war, the pandemic will continue to affect smartphone market  trends in 2022. China, the world’s largest smartphone consumer market, is still  adopting a dynamic zero-COVID policy. Not only will this policy exacerbate  manpower and material shortages in the intricate smartphone supply chain,  pandemic prevention activities will also throw cold water on demand, TrendForce  believes. Given China’s short-term economic growth rate, the current  forecast for China’s smartphone market shipments will drop from about  325 million units last year to 300 million units, representing an  annual decline of about 7.7%, and a possibility of a continued downturn, the  market research firm forecasts. 