GaN Systems and GSR conducting Internet data center power supply field trial GaN Systems Inc of Ottawa, Ontario, Canada (a fabless developer of  gallium nitride-based power switching semiconductors for power  conversion and control applications) and Xuzhou GSR Semiconductor Co Ltd have jointly announced what is  claimed to be the first industry field trial  of GaN in the power infrastructure of an Internet data center (IDC), reckoned to be a key milestone toward the  universal adoption of GaN in IDCs. Offering  higher power density with  exceptional reliability, GaN Systems  reckons that its technology can enable up to 20% energy savings for a data center  compared to the use of legacy silicon power semiconductors. These energy  savings increase profit margins, lower energy consumption, and reduce the  data-center carbon footprint. The  field trial is a critical step toward global adoption of GaN in IDCs, as it confirms  the magnitude of energy savings for positive environmental impact while meeting  the rigid reliability requirements of data-center operators, says GaN Systems.  Picture:   3000W GaN power supply  versus 550W silicon power supply (Xuzhou GSR Semiconductor Co Ltd). Industry  insiders have high expectations and are paying close attention to progress in  adopting GaN in data-center power supply  systems, says the firm. According to the China Institute of Communications  (CIC), in 2020 data-center power consumption in China exceeded 200 billion kWh  (about 2% of China’s total power consumption), accounting for a power usage effectiveness (PUE) of 1.49 and  carbon dioxide emission of 135 million tons and a carbon intensity (CUE) of 0.82 (about 1.14% of  national carbon dioxide emissions).  The ‘14th Five Year Plan for Digital  Economy Development’ requires Chinese companies to comply with the principles  of low-carbon and energy efficiency,  continuously promote green construction, accelerate energy savings, and improve the utilization of  renewable energy in data centers. It is critical for data centers to improve energy efficiency as China aims to achieve  carbon neutrality. The adoption of new technology for energy efficiency and  carbon reduction in data centers should not only promote green  development for data centers but  also help China to reach carbon neutrality by 2060, it is expected. “Our company  has dedicated years of effort to develop fast-charging devices for electric vehicles, solar inverters and IDC power supplies  around the world,” says GaN Systems’  CEO Jim Witham. “GaN Systems is  thrilled to partner with GSR Semiconductors and other leading customers, such  as Great Wall and the Chinese  Academy of Sciences, to leverage our highly efficient and high-reliability GaN  semiconductors to support China’s goal to reach carbon neutrality by 2060,” he  adds. “Up to 20%  energy savings for data centers is a  disruptive technological innovation, thanks to the adoption of the latest GaN  semiconductor technology,” comments GSR Semiconductors’ chairman Sonny Wu. “We  expect more Chinese technology companies like Xuzhou GSR Semiconductor to build  a local supply chain for high-end  GaN chips for EV and IDC applications.” The beta test  was first launched in March at the High Performance Computing Centre of  the Physics Department at Northwest University (NWU-HPC). More data centers  will be selected for trials going forward. The power  supplies for this trial (which has received support from Shenzhen Frontier Lab,  a unit of HG Semiconductors) were designed in Beijing and leveraged  technology from GaN Systems and GSR Semiconductor. Analysis indicates that  the energy efficiency of the new power supply  at 50% load is up to 98% (4% higher  than that of traditional silicon-based power supplies). This alone can reduce  total energy consumption of the data center  by 10%. When combined with the replacement of UPS power supplies and cooling  systems in data centers, the energy  reduction is expected to reach up to 20%. According to  the recently released plan of the national computing power network, China has  eight national hub nodes and ten large data-center clusters. The use of GaN  power transistors for more  energy-efficient PSU power modules can offer a foundation for the development of  energy-efficient data centers, hence  supporting China’s target of carbon neutrality by 2060. 