UK government funding for connecting 5G radio towers with optical fiber Together with consortium partners, the  Compound Semiconductor Centre Ltd (CSC, a joint venture founded in  2015 between Cardiff University and epiwafer foundry and substrate maker IQE plc of Cardiff, Wales, UK) has won £1.5m in funding from the  Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS) as part of the UK’s  efforts to develop homegrown telecoms technology and diversify 5G and  future-generation networks. The DCMS ‘Future Random  Access Networks Competition’ (FRANC) is the first of a number of  homegrown 5G infrastructure development interventions, and funds 15  consortia in this round. The project ‘Scalable Optical Fronthaul for 5G OpenRAN’ is led by  Rushmere Technologies Ltd of Ipswich, UK (which was founded in 2012 and  develops optoelectronic devices, primarily for the telecoms industry, using  in-house design, build and test capabilities). Other consortium members include  BT, Aston University, and TerOpta Ltd. “5G networks critically rely on optical  fiber links to connect the radio antennae to the electronic processing  base-station equipment,” notes CSC. “This project will develop ground-breaking,  UK-made, scalable, cost-effective optical interface technology to enable dense  roll out of optical fiber 5G radio access  networks (RANs) with open digital  interfaces for interoperability and low latency.” CSC’s role is in the development of custom epitaxial wafer  materials for the laser devices in the novel transceivers designed by Rushmere  for the project. Front-haul optical transceivers will allow reliable, high-speed  optical links between multiple 5G masts and a single hub, for example. This  removes the need for individual network hubs located at each mast. The  technology can also be used to deliver high-speed Internet directly to the  premises through fiber-to-the-home (FTTH) optical fiber infrastructure. “A critical element in being able to deploy 5G is the ability to  connect radio towers with optical fiber, but currently no scalable  technology solution exists that is able to do so,” says Rushmere’s chief  technology officer Jim Harrison. “This project will enable us to develop a  world-leading, scalable, cost effective ‘UK-made’ product whilst re-building  the UK’s capability in the telecom equipment market and ensuring national  security of the network in the future,” he believes. “This project will establish the homegrown UK photonics supply chain  required for the UK to secure its telecoms and network communications  infrastructure and protect our infrastructure from global supply chain  events, such as global chip shortages due to the COVID pandemic, and also to  ensure that the UK has its own sovereign capability,” says CSC’s  program manager for photonics Ali Anjomshoaa. 