TRUMPF presents VCSEL heating systems for faster and better flip-chip assembly In booth 341 (hall A6) at LASER World of Photonics 2022 in Munich, Germany (26-29 April), TRUMPF Photonic Components GmbH of Ulm, Germany  (part of the TRUMPF Group) – which manufactures vertical-cavity  surface-emitting lasers (VCSELs) and photodiodes for the consumer electronics,  datacoms, industrial sensing, heating and automotive markets – is presenting new processes utilizing its  VCSEL heating systems for flip-chip  assemblies in the electronics industry.  Picture: A VCSEL heating-module (photo: TRUMPF). By using VCSEL heating systems for  laser-assisted bonding (LAB) and laser-assisted soldering (LAS), cycle times are reduced to a ninth compared  with standard reflow soldering processes. Furthermore, the quality and  reliability of PCB assemblies are increased, since the VCSEL heating systems work with high precision. As the  intensity distribution of laser radiation can be adjusted through individual  control of single laser zones, the  heat is only applied on the PCB and semiconductor die where it is needed.  Consequently, the quality and lifetime of the PCB boards as well as the die attach and solder interfaces benefit  because warpage and heat within the die are significantly reduced. The assembly process also benefits from  very repeatable and accurate die bonding and soldering conditions, as the VCSEL  heating system allows homogenous  illumination, fast switching times  and precise power control. Another aspect is the overall footprint  for microchip assembly, which can be reduced compared with conventional reflow  solutions because the VCSEL heating systems  are very compact. In laser-assisted soldering (LAS), the  solder balls are soldered directly on the PCB using VCSEL infrared heat  treatment. This is particularly of relevance to supporting the trend towards  using smaller solder balls and  pitches, which in turn also allows for a reduction in overall space needed in  consumer electronics. In laser-assisted bonding (LAB), a  flip-chip is placed on a PCB board using solder balls as a connection. The  VCSEL system heats the chip from above, and the laser energy is transmitted  through a silicon die to melt the solder balls between the chip and PCB. VCSEL  heating systems can be used either for  stationary heating or for on-the-fly heating applications. The VCSEL-based  systems offer bigger heating areas with higher power compared with other  solutions. In its Customer Application Center in  Aachen, Germany, TRUMPF offers customers a testing lab for these potential  applications. “With our unique VCSEL heating modules, electronics manufacturing  can also benefit,” says Ralph Gudde, VP marketing & sales at TRUMPF  Photonic Components. “The compact  design and its homogeneous heating patterns lead to better process control and higher product quality. At the same time, it reduces the  footprint of the assembly production line  – in the case of LAB of up to 30%.” 