ROHM starts production of 150V GaN HEMTs with 8V gate-source voltage Power  semiconductor maker ROHM says  that its new GNE10xxTB series of 150V gallium nitride (GaN)  high-electron-mobility transistors (HEMTs) increases the gate  withstand voltage (rated gate-source voltage) to what is claimed to be an  industry-leading 8V – ideally to be applied in power supply circuits for  industrial equipment such as base stations and data centers along  with Internet of Things (IoT) communication devices. In recent years –  due to the rising demand for server systems in response to the growing number  of IoT devices – improving power conversion efficiency and reducing size have  become important issues requiring further advances in the power device  sector, notes ROHM. As GaN devices generally provide higher switching  characteristics and lower ON-resistance than silicon devices, they are expected  to contribute to lower power consumption of various power supplies  and greater miniaturization of peripheral components. Along with  mass-producing silicon carbide (SiC) devices and feature-rich silicon  devices, ROHM says that it has developed GaN devices that achieve superior  high-frequency operation in the medium-voltage range, allowing it to provide  power solutions for a wider variety of applications. These new  products utilize an original structure that raises the rated gate-source  voltage from the conventional 6V to 8V. As a result, degradation is prevented,  even if overshoot voltages exceeding 6V occur during switching - contributing  to improved design margin and higher reliability in power supply circuits.  The GNE10xxTB series is offered in a highly versatile DFN5060 (5.0mm x 6.0mm x 1.0mm)  package featuring what is claimed to be superior heat dissipation and  large current capability, facilitating handling during the mounting process.  Under the name  EcoGaN, ROHM has trademarked GaN devices that contribute to greater  energy conservation and miniaturization by maximizing the low  ON-resistance and high-speed switching characteristics of GaN, with the goal of  reducing application power consumption, miniaturizing peripheral  components, and reducing design load along with the number of parts  required. Starting with the GNE1040TB with a drain-source ON-resistance of 40mΩ, the firm is working to expand the EcoGaN  lineup with devices that improve performance.  Application examples are cited as: 48V input buck converter circuits for  data centers and base stations; boost converter circuits for the power amplifier block of  base stations; Class D audio amplifiers; and light detection & ranging (LiDAR) drive circuits and wireless charging  circuits for portable devices.  Going forward,  ROHM will continue to develop control ICs that leverage analog  power supply technology such as Nano Pulse Control and modules that  incorporate these ICs, along with power solutions that contribute to a  sustainability by maximizing the performance of GaN devices. Japan’s Ministry  of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) has set a target of 30% energy savings  for new data centers by 2030. However, system performance must not only be  energy efficient but also robust and stable, as data centers have  become a vital part of social infrastructure, says ROHM. In response,  ROHM’s new GaN device with a gate withstand voltage of 8V provides a high  degree of robustness and stability while achieving what is claimed to be  superior energy savings. The firm says that, beginning with these products, it  will continue to improve power supply efficiency in power sources by  combining with proprietary Nano Pulse Control analog power supply  technology, creating a major technical trend that will help the semiconductor  and telecoms industries become carbon neutral by 2040. 