Luminar acquiring Freedom Photonics Following a multi-year collaboration, automotive technology  company Luminar Technologies Inc of  Orlando, FL, USA is acquiring Freedom Photonics LLC of Santa Barbara,  CA, USA (which was founded in 2005 and manufactures photonic components,  modules and subsystems for markets including automotive LiDAR, optical sensing, aerospace, industrial processing and data communications). The acquisition brings  fundamental next-generation chip-scale laser technology, intellectual property (IP), and production expertise  in-house for Luminar light detection and ranging  (LiDAR) systems. Luminar is vertically integrating across core LiDAR components that aim to enable low costs, supply chain security and improved performance. The transaction  follows the acquisition of subsidiaries Black Forest  Engineering for custom signal processing  chips in 2017 and Optogration Inc in  2021 for receiver chips. “Component-level innovation and integration is critical to our  performance, cost and continued automotive technology leadership,” says Luminar’s  co-founder & chief technology officer  Jason Eichenholz. “Bringing Freedom Photonics into Luminar enables a new level  of economies of scale, deepens our competitive moat and strengthens our future  technology roadmap,” he believes. “We’ve worked closely with the Freedom team  for the past several years. They have proven to be the best in the world for breakthrough  semiconductor laser chip technology, where both power and beam quality are needed simultaneously for  true high resolution at long range.” The Freedom Photonics executive team will continue to lead and  expand the business upon close of the transaction, which is expected in  second-quarter 2022. “Joining Luminar is the perfect opportunity for Freedom Photonics,  providing us an accelerated path to at-scale commercialization of our  world-class diode laser  technologies,” believes Freedom Photonics’ co-founder & CEO Milan  Mashanovitch. “In addition to helping extend Luminar’s automotive industry  leadership, we will continue to serve and grow our broad customer base across other key markets.” 