Transphorm’s SuperGaN FETs power Boco’s crypto-mining power supply Transphorm Inc  of Goleta, near Santa Barbara, CA, USA — which designs and manufactures  JEDEC- and AEC-Q101-qualified gallium nitride (GaN)  field-effect transistors (FETs) for high-voltage power conversion —  says that its SuperGaN FETs are being used in the new 3.6kW power supply of Hangzhou Boco Electronics Co Ltd.  The 12V AC-to-DC power supply  achieves a peak efficiency of greater than 96% and is designed to be used in  rugged environments caused by ultra-demanding applications such as  crypto-mining rigs and high-performance data-center systems. Driven by  Transphorm’s SuperGaN devices in a patented bridgeless totem-pole power-factor correction (PFC) topology, that power  efficiency rating is nearly 1% higher or 36W lower power consumption than what Boco Electronics achieves in  traditional PFC configurations. The totem-pole PFC topology, along with the  FET’s TO-247 package, also enables reduction of the overall power system’s  component count, in turn reducing the overall system cost. “Mining rigs run 24 hours  a day, seven days a week. Given this,  our customers seek higher-power, higher-efficiency, higher-reliability power supplies to support these intensive  applications,” says Boco Electronics’  CEO Golden Yin. “We knew we could  meet those requirements by matching our strong design capabilities with  advanced GaN solutions,” he adds. “Whereas GaN was the right technology in  general, Transphorm’s SuperGaN products were the right devices. They proved to  be better suited for the higher power ranges while offering the higher field reliability required by such industrial  applications when compared to alternative options.” The Transphorm device used in the power supply is the  JEDEC-qualified TP65H035G4WS, a normally-off 650V  device with an on-resistance of 35mΩ.  Part of the SuperGaN Gen IV product family, it  offers what is claimed to be an industry-leading ±20V gate robustness with the industry’s best noise immunity threshold of 4V. With faster switching and lower losses, Transphorm’s GaN replaces  traditional MOSFETs used by Boco Electronics in similar incumbent power  supplies. Further, it allows Boco to use the advanced totem-pole PFC in lieu of an interleaving H (full bridge) PFC or interleaving DCM PFC. The  system’s resulting power density  increased, allowing for additional space for increased cooling air flow. Notably, development of the power supply took only six months, aligning with the ease of  drivability and designability that is synonymous with Transphorm’s devices. “Power-hungry applications like crypto mining — which solve complex mathematical problems while  processing massive amounts of data — are increasingly more expensive to  support, from hardware to raw energy resources. In fact,  mining farms that used to benefit from local government support and cheaper  energy delivery through hydropower in China are now being forced to relocate,  as a result of regulatory changes,” says Kenny Yim, Transphorm’s VP of Asia Pacific sales (citing Feng, Coco, ‘Chinese bitcoin miner exodus faces hurdles as equipment remains stuck  from shipments delays, tariffs and legal quagmire’, South China Morning Post, 12 February). “As a result, we’re seeing manufacturers  of related high-power application systems turn to GaN for remarkably better  performance and efficiency to combat higher electricity prices. It’s a trend  we’re proud to support as we continue to strengthen and enhance our GaN  platform,” he adds. Transphorm says that its role in Boco Electronics’ product development process went beyond supplying  transistors. Its technical support team collaborated with the Boco’s  engineering team on design reviews to ensure that the GaN technology was  maximized for the highest performance output possible. 