NXP and Hitachi Energy collaborate on power module to accelerate SiC adoption in E-mobility NXP  Semiconductors N.V. of Eindhoven, The Netherlands has announced a collaboration with Hitachi Energy to accelerate the adoption of  silicon carbide (SiC) power semiconductor modules in e-mobility. The  project aims to provide more efficient, reliable and functionally safe SiC  MOSFET-based solutions for powertrain inverters consisting of NXPs GD3160 single-channel  high-voltage (HV) isolated gate drivers  and Hitachi Energy’s RoadPak  automotive SiC MOSFET power modules. Compared with  traditional silicon insulated-gate bipolar transistors  (IGBTs), SiC MOSFET power devices  offer electric vehicle makers the  ability to increase the range and overall efficiency of their systems. Enabled  by high-performance power semiconductor  modules and isolated gate drivers, SiC  MOSFET power devices offer faster  switching speeds, lower turn-on resistance and reduced thermal  dissipation that can help to drive down the size and cost of an electric  vehicle’s (xEV’s) powertrain inverter and lower the required capacity of the  battery pack, extending the  vehicle’s range. Hitachi Energy’s  high-performance automotive power semiconductor  module RoadPak delivers what is claimed to be excellent heat dissipation, low stray inductances, and long-term ruggedness to  withstand the challenging automotive environment (key to unleashing the full capabilities  and benefits of SiC MOSFETs). To attain optimal performance, the power module is paired with NXP’s GD3160 single-channel,  high-voltage isolated gate driver (with  enhanced features for driving SiC MOSFETs devices rated to 1700V), which  enables fast and reliable switching and fault protection. “Working with Hitachi Energy has allowed us to highlight the efficiency  and range benefits of SiC MOSFETs for e-mobility,” says Robert Li, VP &  general manager of NXP’s Drivers  & Energy Systems product line. “By pairing the GD3160 with the Hitachi Energy’s  RoadPak SiC module, we’ve  delivered a solution that aims to reduce the transition time from evaluation to  performance optimization of SiC MOSFETs used in traction inverters.” Hitachi Energy  has been leveraging its technology and the experience gained in the industrial  and transportation segments to develop its high-density RoadPak automotive SiC  power modules for e-mobility  applications. The RoadPak half-bridge power module  incorporates 1200V SiC MOSFETs,  integrated cooling pin-fins and low-inductance connections all in a small form factor. It can support applications from  e-buses and electric passenger vehicles  to high-performance Formula-E race cars. “We are pleased to be collaborating with NXP Semiconductors to improve  the performance of e-mobility with faster and low-loss switching,” says Rainer Kaesmaier,  managing director of Hitachi Energy’s Semiconductor business. “Our joint  solution based on NXP Gate Units and SiC RoadPak from Hitachi Energy, built  on our industry-leading experience and innovative technologies, will help  enable e-vehicles to drive longer distances,” he adds. The FRDMGD31RPEVM  (the GD3160 half-bridge EVB customized for the RoadPak SiC module) is available  now. Hitachi Energy’s 1200V RoadPak half-bridge SiC module is available now in  580A, 780A and 980A options. 