MICLEDI collaborating with GlobalFoundries on manufacturing micro-LED displays for AR glasses MICLEDI Microdisplays B.V. of Leuven, Belgium, a fabless developer  of micro-LED arrays for high-end augmented reality (AR) glasses, has announced a  manufacturing collaboration with GlobalFoundries (GF) of Malta, NY, USA (which has  operations in Singapore, Germany and the USA), aiming to enable AR glasses to  achieve the brightness, resolution, power, size and economies of scale needed  to become affordable for consumers. MICLEDI’s solution will be combined with  GF’s 22FDX feature-rich platform that provides the performance, ultra-low power  and broad feature integration capability needed to fabricate MICLEDI’s  micro-LED arrays in mass production. Such companion integrated circuits, which can be  customized for different customer applications, will provide the image  processing, driver and control functions needed to complete the display modules  using wafer-to-wafer hybrid bonding. Picture:       MICLEDI demonstrates micro-LEDs on its proprietary  300mm wafer flow. The overall global AR market is estimated  to be growing at a compounded annual growth rate (CAGR) of 31.5% from  2021 to $88.4bn in 2026 (according to MarketsandMarkets), as it becomes the next  consumer platform. “Demand for AR and VR products will soar  as users experience more immersive augmented reality,” reckons Ed Kaste, VP of  Industrial and Multi-Market at GlobalFoundries. “MICLEDI’s micro-LED solution,  combined with GF's 22FDX platform, addresses the demanding needs of future AR  glasses by providing ultra-high-resolution displays and advanced imaging  technology that make stunning visual detail and color possible,” he adds. “We are pleased to collaborate with GF as  we move from pilot-line manufacturing to mass production in a world-class fab,”  says MICLEDI Microdisplays’ CEO Sean Lord. “To enable optimum micro-displays  for AR, MICLEDI has developed a unique and innovative solution for micro-LED  manufacturing integrating both the controller IC and emitter module to  leverage GFs 300mm semiconductor manufacturing technology, capitalizing on  manufacturing precision for product performance, high volume and low cost.” See  related items: MICLEDI raises €4.5m from imec.xpand, PMV and FIDIMEC 