Power Integrations unveils quasi-resonant PFC IC with 750V GaN switch Power Integrations of San Jose, CA, USA, which  provides high-voltage integrated circuits for energy-efficient power conversion, has launched the HiperPFS-5 family of  power-factor correction  (PFC) ICs, which have an integrated 750V PowiGaN gallium nitride switch. With efficiency of up to 98.3%, the new ICs  deliver up to 240W without a heat sink  and can achieve a power factor  of better than 0.98. HiperPFS-5 ICs are suitable for high-power USB PD adapters, TVs, game consoles, all-in-one computers  and appliances. “With OEMs and after-market suppliers racing to create the  fastest, smallest, most versatile USB PD  chargers for mobile devices, HiperPFS-5 ICs give engineers a critical  advantage,” claims senior product marketing  manager Edward Ong. “We have combined our proprietary PowiGaN switch with a  quasi-resonant, variable-frequency discontinuous mode boost PFC topology. By pairing HiperPFS-5 ICs with our  new HiperLCS2 chipset or our InnoSwitch4-CZ active-clamp flyback ICs, designers can easily beat  even the most aggressive efficiency regulations while cutting the bill of materials by half and achieving extremely attractive form factors for ultra-fast  chargers.” The capacitors and inductors used in power supplies generate a phase change between current and voltage, causing losses in the  power lines and potentially disrupting other equipment connected to the AC  mains. Many countries require power supplies  over 75W to adjust for this effect by using power-factor correction. While there are many PFC solutions available,  HiperPFS-5 ICs with PowiGaN technology and a quasi-resonant (QR) control scheme provide off-line power quality enhancement. HiperPFS-5’s QR discontinuous conduction mode (DCM) control  technique adjusts the switching frequency across output load, input line voltage and input line cycle. QR DCM control ensures low  switching losses and  permits the use of a low-cost boost diode.  The variable frequency  engine allows the reduction of boost inductor size by more than 50% compared  with conventional critical-conduction-mode (CRM) boost PFC circuits. Low  switching and conduction losses — which are further reinforced by the PowiGaN  switch — together with lossless current sensing,  mean that HiperPFS-5 ICs  offer high efficiency across the entire load range, with efficiency rising as  high as 98.3%. HiperPFS-5 ICs  provide a PF higher than 0.98 at full load. At light loads a power-factor enhancement (PFE) feature  compensates for input filter capacitance, maintaining a high PF of 0.96 even at  20% load. No-load power consumption is just 38mW. 