GaN Systems showcasing smallest GaN chargers at APEC In booth #1324 at the 37th annual Applied Power Electronics Conference (APEC 2022)  in Houston, Texas (20-24 March), GaN Systems Inc of Ottawa, Ontario, Canada (a  fabless developer of gallium nitride-based power switching  semiconductors for power conversion and control applications) together  with power conversion R&D  company Rompower Energy Systems Inc of Tucson,  AZ, USA are displaying what are claimed to be industry firsts - the  smallest 65W and 100W GaN chargers offering the highest efficiency and best  power density: “The technology advances  in these chargers meet the newest demands in fast-charging applications where  charger solutions must be small, cost-effective, and thermally efficient,” says  Rompower’s founder & CEO Ionel (Dan) Jitaru. Strong growth in demand for  chargers is being driven by the consumer electronics industry from smartphones, PCs (desktops,  notebooks and workstations), and other personal devices. In 2021 worldwide  sales grew by 6% in smartphones to 1.4 billion  units and by 15% in PC shipments to 341 million  units, with revenues surpassing US$250bn. GaN transistors allow  chargers to operate more efficiently, resulting in significantly less power loss and heat. This enables the system components to  be smaller and closer together, resulting in smaller, sleeker chargers with  more power than larger models. The GaN Systems  transistors can be switched at high frequency for maximum efficiency and power density, making them suitable for charging  applications. “GaN is revolutionizing  the consumer and industrial charger markets by reducing size up to 4x while  delivering on consumers’ insatiable need for fast-charging,” says GaN Systems’ CEO Jim Witham. “We are proud to partner with  industry leaders from Dell to Harman to Samsung, leading the charge for GaN in  consumer markets. Today’s collaboration with Rompower is the latest milestone  on that journey.” At APEC 2022, Rompower presented a seminar ‘GaN impact on the AC-DC  Power Adapters’ highlighting GaN versus silicon for AC-DC adapter applications.  Also, in booth 1324, GaN Systems is showcasing Rompower’s 65W and  100W GaN chargers and an array of GaN chargers for smartphone and laptop  charging, up to 4x smaller than conventional chargers ranging from 45W to 240W. 