5N Plus appoints president & CEO Specialty semiconductor and performance materials  producer 5N Plus Inc of Montreal, Québec, Canada says that its  board of directors has appointed Gervais Jacques as president & CEO.  Jacques has been interim president & CEO since 1 December 2021. He  remains a member of the board. 5N Plus provides purified metals such as bismuth, gallium,  germanium, indium, selenium and tellurium, and also produces related II-VI  semiconducting compounds such as cadmium telluride (CdTe), cadmium sulphide  (CdS) and indium antimonide (InSb) as precursors for the growth of crystals for  solar, LED and eco-friendly materials applications. Sectors addressed include  renewable energy, security, space, pharmaceutical, medical imaging, and  industrial and additive manufacturing. “Since his interim appointment late last year, Gervais has  demonstrated his strong leadership skills, his passion for 5N Plus, and a clear  vision for the future,” comments Luc Bertrand, chair of the board. “A seasoned  business executive and strategic thinker with over 30 years of industry  experience [in the metals industry], the board is confident that he is the  ideal candidate,” he adds. “The last few months in this role have enabled me to gain  additional insight and perspective into the challenges and opportunities that  lay ahead,” says Jacques. “I am eager to continue working with the strong team  in place to execute our near-term priorities, including the integration of AZUR Space,  and to drive future growth, while managing a complex global market and business  environment.” Jacques is the former managing director and chief commercial officer  of Rio Tinto Aluminum, where he led more than 6000 employees in five  countries. He has previously served as chairman of the International Aluminum  Institute (the only Canadian ever appointed to this position) and as chairman  of the Canadian Aluminum Association. Jacques has a degree in Chemical Engineering  from Université Laval and completed a leadership and strategy program at the  London Business School (England) in 2012. See related item: 5N Plus’ president & CEO steps down 