Sandia reports GaN diode with record 6.4kV breakdown ultrafast devices step to protecting the grid from EMPs Sandia  National Laboratories has fabricated and tested a gallium nitride  (GaN)-based electronic device that can shunt excess electricity within a few  billionths of a second while operating at a record 6400V — a step towards  protecting the electric grid from an electromagnetic pulse (Yates et al, ‘Demonstration of >6.0-kV Breakdown Voltage in Large Area Vertical GaN p-n Diodes With  Step-Etched Junction Termination Extensions’, IEEE Transactions  on Electron Devices;  DOI: 10.1109/TED.2022.3154665). The team’s ultimate goal is to provide protection from  voltage surges, which could lead to months-long power interruptions, with a  device that operates at up to 20,000V. An  electromagnetic pulse (EMP) can be caused by natural phenomena (such as solar  flares) or human activity (such as a nuclear detonation in the atmosphere). An  EMP causes huge voltages in a few billionths of a second, potentially affecting  and damaging electronic devices over a large area. EMPs are  unlikely, but if one were to occur and damage the huge transformers that form  the backbone of the USA’s electric grid, it could take months to replace them  and re-establish power to the affected portion of the nation, says Bob Kaplar,  manager of a semiconductor device research group at Sandia. “The reason  why these devices are relevant to protecting the grid from an EMP is not just  that they can get to high voltage — other devices can get to high voltage — but  that they can respond in a couple billionths of a second. “While the device is  protecting the grid from an EMP, it’s at a very high voltage and thousands of  amps are going through it, which is a huge amount of power. A material can only  handle so much power for a certain amount of time, but we think the material in  our diode has some advantages over other materials.” The new diode  can shunt a record 6400V of electricity within a few billionths of a second but  the team, including Sandia electrical engineer Luke Yates (the paper’s first  author), is working towards fabricating a diode able to operate at about 20,000V,  since most grid distribution electronics operate at around 13,000V. The voltage  surges caused by EMPs are a hundred times faster than those caused by  lightning, so experts don’t know if the devices designed to protect the grid  against lightning strikes would be effective against an EMP, says Jack Flicker,  a Sandia electric grid resiliency expert on the team. “The electric  grid has a number of different protections,” Flicker adds. “They range in  timeframe from very fast to very slow, and they’re overlaid on the electric  grid to ensure that an event cannot cause a catastrophic outage of the electric  grid. The fastest protection that we typically have on the grid reacts against  pulses at one millionth of a second, to protect against lightning. For  EMPs, we’re talking ten billionths of a second, a hundred times faster.” The  new Sandia device can react that quickly. “A major  challenge of achieving these very high-voltage diodes is the need to have very  thick gallium nitride layers. The drift regions of these devices have  thicknesses of about 50μm,” Crawford  says. “The growth process we use can have growth rates of only one or two  microns per hour. A second major challenge is maintaining very low densities of  crystalline defects, specifically impurities or missing atoms in the  semiconductor material, throughout the growth time in order to generate devices  that work at these very high voltages.” For the team  to reach their ultimate goal of a device that operates at 20,000V, they will  need to grow the layer even thicker with even fewer defects, Crawford notes.  There are several other technical challenges to constructing a device that can  operate at such high voltages and currents, she added, including designs to  manage the very high internal electric fields within the devices. After  Crawford’s team fabricated the devices, Flicker and his team tested how the devices  responded to fast voltage spikes, similar to what would occur during an  EMP. His challenge has been modifying a tool to measure the very fast response time  of the devices. “Developing  the tools that can accurately measure the very fast responses is very  difficult,” Flicker says. “If we’re talking one or two billionths of a second,  they need to be able to measure even faster than that, which is a challenge.” Flicker and  his team used very specialized equipment to apply a high-voltage pulse, and  measure the electric pulse that is reflected back from the diode to tell when  the device turns on, very accurately and in less than a billionth of a second. Devices like  Sandia’s GaN diode can be used for other purposes, beyond protecting the grid  from EMPs, Kaplar says. These include smart transformers for the grid,  electronic devices to convert electricity from roof-top solar panels into  power that can be used by household appliances, and even electric car charging  infrastructure. Commonly,  solar panel converters and electric car charging infrastructure can handle 1200V  or 1700V. But operating at higher voltage allows for higher efficiencies and  lower electricity losses. Another  portion of the project is to develop diodes for these types of devices that  operate at high but not record-breaking voltage, but are easier to manufacture,  Kaplar says. The Naval Research Laboratory is leading this part of the  project. Some smart  transformers and electronic devices can now operate at up to 3300V, Flicker  says, but efficiencies would be even greater if they could operate at 10,000V  or 15,000V with one semiconductor device. “We have this  primary goal of protection of the electrical grid, but these devices have other  uses beyond that,” Flicker notes. “It’s interesting to have our application  area but know that these devices can be used in power electronics, power converters,  everything that’s at very high voltages.” The research  is funded by ARPA-E and the larger project is conducted in partnership with the  Naval Research Laboratory, Stanford University, National Institute of  Standards and Technology, EDYNX and Sonrisa Research. 