Cambridge GaN Devices debuts first commercial products Marking its debut appearance at the (Applied  Power Electronics Conference (APEC) (20-24 March), fabless  semiconductor company Cambridge GaN Devices Ltd (CGD) has  emerged from stealth mode to launch its first portfolio of products, which are  capable of reducing power losses by up to 50%. CGD has launched the ICeGaN 650V  H1 series comprising four 650V products that utilise GaN-based technology. Spun out of the University of Cambridge  Department of Engineering’s Electrical Power and Energy Conversion group in  2016 by Dr Giorgia  Longobardi and professor Florin Udrea, CGD has spent the past six years in R&D to design, develop and  commercialize power semiconductors products  that use gallium nitride (GaN)-on-silicon  substrates. The firm has accumulated a portfolio of 39 patents and  applications, 20 of which are said to be distinctive inventions, focused on  faster, smaller and more economical devices designed to drive widespread  adoption of GaN technology in consumer electronics  and beyond. The 650V H1 product series  represents CGD’s commercial launch and is claimed to be an industry first,  enabling the use of standard MOSFET drivers and no external components needed  for protection. Engineers will be able to use CGD’s GaN-based technology in  applications currently run with silicon-based devices or with other GaN  solutions. CGD says that its patented ICeGaN (Integrated Circuit  Enhancement Mode GaN) technology merges the ease-of-use benefits seen in  cascode configurations with the simplicity of a single-die eMode (normallyOFF) high-electron-mobility  transistors (HEMTs), as well as a number of integrated smart sense and  protection features. All of this is embedded in a single die that is reckoned  to deliver up to 50% power loss  reduction compared with legacy silicon die. The technology is fully scalable on  power and voltage for future developments, says CGD. ICeGaN is an integrated solution based on GaN with an intelligent  and self-protecting mechanism that enhances the functionality, versatility and  reliability of the transistor. This GaN technology can be applied to any system  that requires power and operates in the 650V market segment, says the firm.  Initial applications include consumer electronic  products such as mobile chargers,  adapters for laptops, gaming and AIOs computers and, in general, SMPS (switched-mode power supplies) for consumer applications. The 650V H1 Series portfolio is also a first step  into segments such as lighting and server power. Further expansion is planned  towards high-power servers and telecom markets for data centers, photovoltaics (PV) inverters  and renewable energy production, targeting  electric vehicle/hybrid electric vehicle (EV/HEV) systems in  the future. 