Germany’s ‘EdgeLimit-Green ICT’ project gains funding for three-year implementation phase Funded by the German Federal Ministry of Education  and Research (BMBF) for three years as part of the ‘Green ICT’ initiative, Fraunhofer Institutes  IAF (Institute for Applied Solid State  Physics, in Freiburg) and IIS (Institute for Integrated Circuits, in Erlangen) - together with the  Institute for Sustainable Systems Engineering (INATECH) at the University of Freiburg and  multiple industrial partners – have begun the implementation phase  of the project ‘EdgeLimit-Green ICT’, which  aims to  develop and test an energy-efficient edge-cloud system for mobile  radio base stations by 2025, making use of aluminium scandium nitride  (AlScN)-based  components and demand-driven control. EdgeLimit-Green ICT follows a successful preliminary project from  October 2020 to June 2021 involving the investigation and design of innovative  semiconductor technologies and application approaches for energy-efficient  mobile radio systems. In summer 2021, through the BMBF’s innovation competition  ‘Green ICT—Electronics for energy-saving information and communication  technology’, the project was selected among ten research groups to receive continued  funding. “Energy-efficient microelectronics, as we are developing in  ‘EdgeLimit-Green ICT’, exemplifies how new technologies can become more  powerful and at the same time conserve resources,” notes project coordinator  professor Rüdiger Quay, executive director of Fraunhofer IAF. “The  novel power semiconductor components being developed by Fraunhofer IAF,  in combination with the intelligent, AI-assisted networking and control of the  antenna system designed by Fraunhofer IIS, promise to halve energy  losses during millimeter-wave 5G transmission,” he adds. The industrial partners in the project network are supporting the  project through collaborations in the development of novel high-frequency  transistors (Nokia), circuit processing (United Monolithic Semiconductors GmbH,  UMS), and the real-world evaluation and transfer of test results (Deutsche  Telekom AG). On the one hand, the high energy-saving potential of the antenna  system that will be developed in EdgeLimit-Green ICT results from the  superior material properties of the power semiconductor aluminum scandium nitride.  Fraunhofer IAF produces AlScN by metal-organic chemical vapor  deposition (MOCVD) and uses the material in fabricating high-electron-mobility  transistors (HEMTs). Due to its high current-carrying capacity, AlScN  potentially allows significantly higher power density and gain compared  with established semiconductors such as silicon, gallium arsenide (GaAs)  or gallium nitride (GaN). On the other hand, the savings result from efficient design of the  electronics. “We are developing an innovative electronics architecture at  Fraunhofer IIS to make possible intelligent networking and demand-driven  control of the transmitter and receiver modules with the support of artificial intelligence  (AI),” says Thomas von der Grün, head of Locating and Communication  Systems Department at Fraunhofer IIS. “This provides for a partial shift  of processing capacities from the central infrastructure (cloud) to the edge of  the network and the implementation of data processing systems.” Overall, the combination of energy-efficient components and  optimized organization should reduce energy losses in the remote radio head  (RRH) implemented in EdgeLimit-Green ICT by at least 50%. For this  purpose, researchers double the power efficiency at the amplifier level at new  frequencies of 26-34GHz, halve the loss in power converters, and implement  demand-driven system control. 