EPIR orders Riber MBE 32P MCT research system Riber S.A. of Bezons, France – which designs and  makes molecular beam epitaxy (MBE) systems and evaporators  – has received an order from EPIR Inc of Bolingbrook, IL, USA (a subsidiary of Sivananthan Laboratories Inc)  for an MBE 32P MCT research system to expand its  manufacturing base. EPIR develops  HgCdTe (mercury cadmium telluride - MCT) semiconductors for infrared  detection and imaging devices. The firm uses customized material growth  technology, enabled by Riber’s MBE equipment and  including multiple epitaxial layers grown on either lattice-matched CdZnTe  (cadmium zinc telluride) for high-performance applications or silicon  substrates for a lower-cost approach. “Riber was the main equipment provider for our MBE  needs during the last two decades and this new acquisition is a testimony to  the quality and reliability of the products it provides,” comments EPIR’s president Dr Silviu Velicu. “The new MBE 32 MCT system to be installed at EPIR will help  us address increased commercial and government needs for high-quality HgCdTe  material,” he adds. EPIR’s chief  operating officer Dr Paul Boieriu expects that HgCdTe with high purity,  low defect densities and high uniformity over large areas will exhibit  state-of-the-art performance shortly after the installation of the  MBE 32P MCT system in early 2023. “Our MBE 32 product range has been in existence for 40 years with an installed base of several  hundred systems worldwide,” notes Philippe Ley, chairman of Riber’s executive board. “Among  the wide range of materials that can be processed, the epitaxial growth of  mercury-containing compounds is one of the most demanding thin-film depositions  characterized in MBE. For four decades Riber’s MBE 32P has excelled in the arena of MCT growth,  where unrivalled reference quality material has been produced,” he claims.  “There is no more powerful endorsement than repeat system business, which we  see here again as our company is graced with another 32P MCT order from EPIR, who we know have total  confidence in transferring and enhancing existing processes from long  established working reactors to our modern version of this legendary MBE  system.” 