France funding Riber’s 300mm pilot line for silicon photonics sector As part  of the call for projects ‘Industry Stimulus Plan - Strategic Sectors’ launched by the  France’s Ministry of Industry, Riber S.A. of Bezons, France – which designs and makes  molecular beam epitaxy (MBE) systems and evaporators – has been awarded public funding to finance its 300mm  pilot line. ROSIE is a unique platform that  enables epitaxy for perovskite materials and specifically BTO/STO (barium titanium oxide/  strontium titanium oxide) on silicon. This configuration  makes it possible to address the core component of several emerging  applications, including electro-optic modulators, electric vehicles  (EV), ‘beyond CMOS’  and quantum computing. Riber says that the French State’s  €1.1m subsidy has further strengthened its dedicated resources for implementing  the ROSIE pilot line, which aims to provide the material and human  resources needed for industry stakeholders to carry out small series,  demonstrators and proofs of concept. Based on the ultra-vacuum  deposition technique and compatible with semiconductor industry standards  (300mm), ROSIE will be focused on depositing very thin films of materials by  epitaxy on silicon and will offer monoatomic precision capabilities in terms of  control on a 300mm wafer. ROSIE represents a  total industrial investment of €3m over three years.  Driving the development of silicon photonics, it  should help to meet the current challenges concerning the integration and  convergence of semiconductor sectors (silicon, III-V) to design new  microprocessors that go beyond the current technological limitations and offer  extremely high-performance switching speed properties  with virtually zero optical losses. Scheduled to be operational by the end of  2023, the ROSIE pilot line has already received  several expressions of interest from clients in Europe and the USA. “Thanks to the French State’s support, Riber is setting out its position as a vital industrial  partner to further strengthen the semiconductor industry’s competitiveness in  Europe,” says Philippe Ley, chairman of Riber’s executive board. “This public  support will help optimize and secure the industrial development of our highly  strategic ROSIE pilot line,”  he adds. “Riber is moving forward with its ambition to work on innovative and  disruptive technologies supporting the silicon industry.” 