Transphorm exhibiting and presenting at APEC 2022 In booth 825 at the 37th annual IEEE  Applied Power Electronics Conference and Exposition (APEC 2022) in  Houston, Texas (20-24 March), Transphorm Inc of Goleta, near Santa Barbara,  CA, USA — which designs and manufactures gallium nitride (GaN)  field-effect transistors (FETs) for high-voltage power conversion —  is hosting in-production products from customers representing a broad range of  markets. Also, its engineering experts are presenting several technological  innovations driving both the usability and adoption of GaN industry-wide. Transphorm’s complete product portfolio currently includes 650V  and 900V devices in JEDEC- and  AEC-Q101-qualified forms and various packages. The firm reckons that its  portfolio’s technical advantages are driven largely by its vertical  integration. Uncommonly for the GaN semiconductor industry, this operating  model allows Transphorm to control its devices’ design, epitaxial wafer and manufacturing processes. As a result, the firm claims that it supports the largest range of  power conversion requirements (45W  to 10+kW) across the widest range of power applications: power adapters, data-center and gaming  power-supply units (PSUs), crypto mining  rigs, electric vehicle (EV)  converters, inverters for renewable energy,  broad industrial systems, aerospace & defense systems, and others. Examples  of these cross-industry products are on-site during the show. Additionally, Transphorm partners with leading technology  companies offering complementary capabilities to fast-track development of GaN  power systems. The firm says that  these partnerships remove barriers to adoption, simplifying the design-in of  its GaN FETs. Several of these  development tools are also on display. During the APEC conference, Transphorm staff are giving the  following presentations: ‘No Two Wide Bandgap Technologies are the Same: Switching  Advantages of SuperGaN FETs’ by senior VP of technical marketing and business development  Philip Zuk, Industry Session (IS11.7) on 23 March (5:20pm). 