Lumentum and Ayar Labs collaborate on CW-WDM MSA-compliant external laser sources for co-packaged optical interconnects Lumentum Holdings Inc of San Jose, CA, USA (which designs and makes  photonic products for optical networks and lasers in industrial and consumer  markets) and Ayar Labs of Santa Clara, CA, USA, whose  integrated optical I/Os are targeted at artificial intelligence (AI),  cloud, high-performance computing (HPC), 5G, and light detection &  ranging (LIDAR), have entered into a strategic collaboration agreement  to deliver CW-WDM MSA (continuous-wave  wavelength division multiplexing multi-source agreement)-compliant  external laser sources in high volume. These light sources are critical to  power Ayar Labs’ optical I/O solution, which are said to deliver  breakthrough bandwidth, energy-efficiency and latency benefits for computing  and networking over existing short-reach copper links. The CW-WDM MSA  was formed to standardize WDM CW sources in the O-band for emerging advanced  integrated optics applications that are expected to move to 8, 16 and 32 wavelengths.  Such higher wavelength counts are  needed for emerging applications such as silicon photonics  (SiPh)-based high-density co-packaged optics, optical computing, and AI, and  enable a leap in performance, efficiency, cost and bandwidth scaling compared  with previous technology generations. “Co-packaged  optics to replace traditional copper interconnects is a massive new market  opportunity broadly recognized by the industry and one that Lumentum is well  positioned to address with our proven laser technologies and manufacturing  scale,” believes Walter Jankovic, senior VP & general manager of  Datacom at Lumentum. “Ayar Labs is a leader in the development and  commercialization of this market opportunity, and we believe that, working  together, we can accelerate this technology transition for the benefit of all,”  he adds. “Since our  founding [in 2015], Ayar defined optical I/O as the disruptive transition from  copper and electrons to fiber optics and photons for short-reach  data communication,” says Ayar Labs’ CEO Charles Wuischpard.  “Ayar Labs’ patented silicon photonics technology and new industry  standards like the CW-WDM MSA are critical to this transition, as is the  development of the manufacturing, supply chain and packaging ecosystem to  cost-effectively deliver the solution at scale in the millions of units,” he  adds. “Lumentum is one of the largest and most efficient laser manufacturers in  the world, and will provide the proven capability to address the volume,  quality and reliability requirements of our optical I/O solution.” Last year,  Ayar Labs demonstrated its 64-wavelength WDM optical source running  at temperatures up to 100°C. The latest  announcement follows news in late February of a strategic collaboration between  Ayar Labs and Hewlett Packard Enterprise (HPE) for next-generation  data-center architectures and networking with optical I/O, along with related  news from GlobalFoundries for a first-of-its-kind silicon photonics  manufacturing platform GF Fotonix, needed to address market demand for  these solutions. Ayar Labs  and Lumentum are Promoter Members of the CW-WDM MSA, and GlobalFoundries and  HPE are Observer Members. 