Ranovus delivers first monolithic 100G optical I/O cores for data centers based on GF Fotonix platform At the Optical Fiber Communications  conference (OFC 2022) in San Diego, CA, USA (8-10 March), Ranovus  Inc of Ottawa, Ontario, Canada (which develops and manufactures multi-terabit photonics interconnect solutions for data-center and  communications networks) has announced the availability of its  protocol-agnostic Odin 100G optical I/O cores based on GF Fotonix, the new  next-generation monolithic platform of US-based GlobalFoundries. GF Fotonix  is reckoned to be first in the industry to combine 300mm photonics and RF-CMOS  features on a silicon wafer, delivering what is claimed to be best-in-class  performance at scale. Odin 100G optical I/O chiplets and  IP cores can be integrated with processors, switches and memory appliances to  enable new data-center architectures for machine learning (ML), artificial intelligence  (AI), metaverse, cloud, 5G communications, and defence and aerospace workloads. Data centers  are increasingly demanding efficient and cost-effective high-capacity  interconnect solutions to meet the exponential growth in data-driven applications  like ML/AI and metaverse. Odin 100Gbps optical I/O scales from 8- to 32-cores  in the same footprint by combining Ranovus’ 100Gbps-per-wavelength  monolithic EPIC (electro-photonic integrated circuit) cores with its  proprietary laser and advanced packaging technologies.  Picture:       An 8-core Ranovus  Odin 100Gbps optical I/O with internal and external laser source options for  high-capacity data-center interconnect. “We are delighted to share our  multi-disciplinary silicon photonics IP cores and chiplets, and advanced  packaging solutions with our customers who are driving the adoption of novel  data-center architectures based on integrating best-in-class chiplets and  co-packaged optics,” says chief business development officer Hojjat Salemi.  “Our close collaboration with GlobalFoundries underlines our joint commitment  to deliver a fully featured set of qualified IP cores and chiplets with  OSAT-ready high-volume manufacturing flows and supporting ecosystem to enable  the huge potential of monolithic silicon photonics.” Ranovus has developed a highly flexible  co-packaged optics architecture (Analog-Drive CPO 2.0) together with  a tier-1 ecosystem for high-volume manufacturing of Odin chiplets. The first  customer co-packaged solution with 800Gbps Odin optical I/O is also being  demonstrated at OFC, with samples based on the GF Fotonix platform  shipping now. “Data centers, computing and  sensing applications require incredible processing, transmission and power  efficiency as the world’s data needs soar dramatically,” comments Anthony Yu,  vice president, Computing and Wired Infrastructure strategic business unit  at GF. “Ranovus’ IP cores, chiplets and advanced packaging solutions, combined  with GF Fotonix, provide customers a complete solution to develop the chips  needed solve some of the biggest challenges facing data centers today.” At OFC, Ranovus is exhibiting in  booth 5917 and GlobalFoundries in booth 4604. 