GlobalFoundries collaborating on silicon photonics for data centers GlobalFoundries (GF) of Malta, NY, USA (which has  operations in Singapore, Germany and the USA) says that it is collaborating with firms  including Broadcom Inc, Cisco Systems Inc, Marvell and NVIDIA, along  with photonics companies including Ayar Labs, Lightmatter, PsiQuantum,  Ranovus and Xanadu, to deliver feature-rich solutions to solve challenges  facing data centers. The more than 42 billion  connected Internet of Things (IoT) devices generating ~177ZB of data  annually ––  combined with the rise of power consumption in  data centers ––  is driving the need for innovative solutions  to move and compute data faster and more energy efficiently, notes GF. These  key market trends and implications have catalyzed its focus on semiconductor  solutions that harvest the potential of photons instead of electrons to move  data and position GF in the optical networking module market that is projected  to rise at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 26% from 2021 to about  $4bn by 2026. GF has now unveiled its  next-generation silicon photonics platform GF Fotonix. The firm says  that it has active design wins with major customers, significant  market share, and expects its growth in this segment to outpace the  market. GF is also partnering with Cisco  Systems on a custom silicon photonics solution for data-center network (DCN)  and data-center interconnect (DCI) applications, including an interdependent  process design kit (PDK) in close collaboration with its GF  manufacturing services team. GF Fotonix is a monolithic  platform, reckoned to be the first in the industry to combine differentiated  300mm photonics features and 300GHz-class RF-CMOS on a silicon wafer,  delivering what is claimed to be best-in-class performance at scale.  GF Fotonix consolidates complex processes that were previously distributed  across multiple chips onto a single chip by combining a photonic system,  radio frequency (RF) components and high-performance complementary  metal–oxide–semiconductor (CMOS) logic on a single silicon chip. GF is the only pure-play foundry with  a 300mm monolithic silicon photonics solution that has demonstrated the  industry’s highest data rate per fiber (0.5Tbps/fiber). This enables  1.6-3.2Tbps optical chiplets, which deliver faster, more efficient transmission  of data, more efficiently with better signal integrity. In addition, the up to  10,000x improvement in system error rate enables next-generation  artificial intelligence (AI). GF Fotonix enables high  integration onto a photonics integrated circuit (PIC) so customers can  integrate more product functions and simplify their bill of materials  (BOMs). End customers can realize greater performance through increased  capacity and capability. The new solution also enables innovative packaging  solutions, such as the passive attachment for larger fiber arrays, support  for 2.5D packaging, and on-die lasers. GF Fotonix solutions will be  manufactured at the company’s manufacturing facility in Malta, NY, with the  PDK 1.0 available in April. Electronic design automation (EDA)  partners Ansys, Cadence Design Systems Inc and Synopsys provide  design tools and flows to support GF’s customers and their solutions. GF provides  customers with reference design kits, multi-project wafers (MPWs),  testing, pre- and post-fab, turnkey and semiconductor manufacturing services to  help them get to market faster. In addition, for customers needing  discrete, high-performance RF solutions for optical systems, GF is adding new  features onto the GF SiGe platform. High-performance silicon germanium  solutions from GF are designed to deliver the speed and bandwidth required to  transport information through next-generation fiber-optic high-speed  networks. 