pSemi launches first SP4T switches for up to 67GHz Murata company pSemi Corp of San Diego,  CA, USA – a fabless provider of radio-frequency integrated circuits  (RFICs) based on silicon-on-insulator (SOI) – has expanded its RF SOI  portfolio with the first SP4T (single-pole four-throw) switches for wideband  and high-frequency applications up to 67GHz. Designed to enhance 5G millimeter wave (mmWave)  systems and short-range connectivity, the compact and energy-efficient switches  offer what is claimed to be best-in-class insertion loss, linearity,  switching time and power handling at FR2 frequencies. pSemi now offers a family of mmWave SPDT and SP4T  switches to help designers simplify layouts and improve overall system  efficiency in test and measurement, wireless infrastructure, satellite and  point-to-point communication applications. With rising investments in augmented reality  (AR), virtual reality (VR) and  artificial intelligence (AI) devices  and applications, mmWave frequencies are key to delivering faster data rates, increased throughput and lower  latency in advanced communication networks. 5G mmWave and multi-band  configurations introduce more complex signal transmission and denser antenna  structures to support evolving cellular, satellite and unlicensed standards.  Designers are overcoming these challenges by implementing phased-array antennas  and optimized RF front-end architectures to maximize signal strength and  throughput without adding noise or loss to the system. “Demand for enhanced streaming and augmented-, virtual- and  mixed-reality experiences are accelerating the commercialization of mmWave,”  says Vikas Choudhary, VP of sales &  marketing. “pSemi continues to expand its portfolio of mmWave switches, digital  step attenuators, beam-formers and up-down converters, and to invest in  technology that supports customer needs as higher frequency spectrum is  released,” he adds. Three UltraCMOS switches deliver RF performance, reliability and  size in multiple product configurations to best meet challenging mmWave system  designs from 9kHz to 67GHz. Available in flip-chip die form, the PE42545 SP4T supports up to 67GHz and the PE42525  SPDT supports up to 60GHz. Available in a small 3mm x 3mm LGA  package, the PE42546 SP4T supports up to 45GHz. Benefits include: The test and measurement industry faces the unique challenge of  needing to stay ahead of the 5G mmWave technology learning curve to deliver  advanced testing solutions. Equipment must support higher power handling, high linearity, low insertion loss and fast switching to efficiently  pressure test scenarios up to 67GHz under extreme conditions. For test and measurement designers seeking to simplify complex  broadband designs, a single PE42545 or PE42546 SP4T can replace multiple SPDTs  used in cascaded filter bank  configurations to reduce space and offer band-select paths with less insertion loss. Having access to scalable and  reliable components ensures that designers can easily adapt system designs to  different band configurations as 3GPP standards evolve in 5G, 5G-Advanced and  6G. 