EFFECT acquires Viasat’s coherent optical DSP & FEC business At the Optical Fiber Communications  conference (OFC 2022) in San Diego, CA, USA (6-10 March), EFFECT  Photonics b.v. – a spin off from the Technical University of Eindhoven (TU/e)  in The Netherlands that  develops DWDM optical system-on-chip components using indium phosphide (InP)-based  multi-channel photonic integrated circuits (PICs) for mobile networks and data-centers –  announced that it has signed a  definitive agreement to acquire coherent optical digital signal processing  (DSP) and forward-error correction (FEC) technology as well as a highly  experienced engineering team from global communications company Viasat Inc of Carlsbad, CA, USA. Viasat is a long-established player in DSP and  FEC technology. With eight generations of design IP, it has a proven track record of delivering  field deployments. As a result of the acquisition,  EFFECT Photonics will now own the entire coherent technology stack of all  optical functions, including a high-performance tunable laser, together with  DSP and FEC. The firm reckons that this will enable it to deliver on its aim to  make high-performance coherent communications solutions widely accessible and  affordable. Furthermore, it will enable longer-term economic and  environmentally sustainable communications due to the ability to deliver  high-end performance and reach within a small footprint and with lower power consumption, opening the way to  drive coherent technology into new places. The transaction is expected to provide the  following customer benefits: EFFECT Photonics has also secured an additional  $20m in Series C funding, bringing the total to $63m. Additionally,  pursuant to the DSP acquisition agreement, Viasat will be joining EFFECT  Photonics’ supervisory board  and hold a minority interest in the firm. “This is a  significant step in accelerating our ambition to make coherent optical  communications ubiquitous and further drive our product portfolio growth. We  look forward to welcoming the team of highly skilled and experienced design  architects and engineers who will be joining us to drive the development of  energy-efficient, high-performance and affordable coherent solutions,” says CEO  James Regan. “With all the recent changes in the  industry landscape, this means that EFFECT Photonics is the only independent  vendor able to deliver both the active optical components and the DSP. This  will offer the market more choice and the ability to source superior  solutions,” he adds. “Given the  trend of the fiber-optic communications industry towards consolidation to  provide vertically integrated end-to-end solutions, we believe that combining  Viasat’s assets and capabilities with the unique integrated photonics  capabilities of EFFECT Photonics will create substantially more market  opportunities and better products,” reckons Viasat VP & business area  leader Russell Fuerst. “By investing  in this Netherlands-headquartered company, we will also further expand our  presence in Europe and be able to partner with EFFECT to bring state-of-the-art  integrated photonics to Viasat’s own customers.” 