EFFECT and Jabil to co-develop next-gen coherent optical modules EFFECT Photonics b.v. – a  spin off from the Technical  University of Eindhoven (TU/e) in The Netherlands that develops DWDM optical system-on-chip components using  indium phosphide (InP)-based  multi-channel photonic integrated circuits (PICs) for mobile networks and  data-centers – and Jabil Photonics, a  business unit of manufacturing solutions provider Jabil Inc, intend  to co-develop a next generation of coherent optical modules. The modules  provide a solution for network operators and hyperscalers that want to take  advantage of the high-end performance with QSFP-DD small footprint, low  power consumption and cost, field replaceability and vendor  interoperability for cloud data-center interconnects (DCIs). The next-generation coherent optical modules  address the need for the ever-increasing flow of data, ensuring continuity of service,  security concerns, global expansion and the growing demands for sustainability.  This opportunity brings together the core competencies of both companies in a  collaborative effort to continuously introduce advanced optical technologies in  a rapidly changing market. EFFECT will make available its system-on-chip  optical technology and Jabil will leverage its track record of manufacturing  coherent modules in very large quantities with extensive sourcing  capabilities. “One of the ambitions we have as an  organization is to build strong partnerships to increase our ability to develop  and deliver cutting-edge solutions for our customers,” says EFFECT Photonics’  chief commercial officer Harald Graber. “Hyperscalers are at the forefront  of dealing with this seemingly never-ending growth in Internet traffic. This  co-development with Jabil allows us to jointly innovate to get affordable,  best-in-class solutions to market faster. Jabil will allow us to deliver  reliably at a far greater scale to our global customer base,” he adds. “Pluggable coherent transceivers are at the  heart of a paradigm shift, enabling new open architectures through  disaggregation of switches, transceivers and optical line systems that are  needed for the massive surge in data driven by cloud and 5G applications,”  notes Stefano Schiavoni, VP & general manager of Jabil’s Photonics  business unit. “Jabil Photonics is a key player in coherent pluggable  transceivers with our own portfolio and proven capabilities to help build innovative  solutions and achieve volume production quickly.” 