EVG and Teramount collaborate on packaging technologies for PICs EV  Group of St Florian, Austria – a supplier of wafer bonding and lithography  equipment for semiconductor, micro-electro-mechanical systems (MEMS) and  nanotechnology applications – and  Teramount of Jerusalem, Israel (which provides scalable solutions for  connecting optical fibers to silicon chips for data center, advanced  computing, sensors and other datacom and telecom applications) are  collaborating on implementing wafer-level optics to solve a major obstacle of  silicon photonics, namely fiber chip packaging. The collaboration will  leverage EVG’s nanoimprint lithography (NIL) technology, expertise and services  with Teramount’s PhotonicPlug technology. Under this collaboration, standard CMOS wafers that implement  silicon photonics chips will be post processed using EVG’s NIL technology to  implement optical elements such as mirrors and lenses for Teramount’s unique  ‘self-aligning optics’. This enables flexible beam extraction  from the chips and easy connection to a large number of optical fibers.  Furthermore, it enables wafer-level optical inspection capabilities for  enhancing silicon photonics wafer  manufacturing.  Picture:   Nanoimprint of wafer-level optics on silicon photonics wafer (left) for  Teramount PhotonicPlug’s scalable fiber connectivity (right). The  collaboration is being carried out within EVG’s NILPhotonics Competence Center,  which provides an open access innovation incubator for customers and  partners across the NIL supply chain to collaborate to shorten development  cycles and time to market for innovative photonic devices and  applications. Through the collaboration with Teramount, EVG provides process  development and production services, as well as expertise in both CMOS and  photonics manufacturing, accelerating the commercialization of Teramount’s  PhotonicPlug technology. The need for  high-speed data transfers in data centers, telecom networks, sensors and  emerging applications in advanced computing for artificial intelligence  (AI) is growing exponentially. This in turn is driving the importance of  developing solutions that can cost-effectively scale up production of silicon photonics,  which enable ultra-high bandwidth performance. The collaboration between EVG  and Teramount aims to solve this problem. “Our joint  work with EVG has been very successful in producing this innovative synergy  between wafer-level optics and silicon photonics wafer manufacturing,”  says Hesham Taha, CEO of Teramount. “By offering this capability to the  industry, Teramount solves one of the major hurdles to further adoption of  optical connectivity, which is critical for so many applications that require  high-speed data transfers and low power consumption,” he adds. “Teramount’s PhotonicPlug silicon photonics packaging technology  is a truly novel approach to improving optical performance,” comments Markus  Wimplinger, corporate technology development and IP director at EVG.  “This is just the latest example of innovative technology developed with the  support of EVG’s process and equipment know-how through our NILPhotonics Competence  Center, where we help our partners and customers turn new ideas into innovative  products.” 