Scintil unveils III-V-augmented silicon photonic IC Scintil Photonics of  Grenoble, France and Toronto,  Canada, a fabless developer of silicon  photonic integrated circuits (integrated laser arrays, 800Gb/s transmitters and  receivers, tunable transmitters and receivers),  is unveiling a prototype III-V-augmented silicon photonic  integrated circuit (IC) in booth #5227 at the Optical Fiber Communication conference & exhibition  (OFC 2022) in San Diego, CA, USA (8–10 March). The augmented silicon photonic IC is  a single-chip solution comprising all the active and passive components made  from standard silicon photonics available in commercial foundries, with  III-V optical amplifiers/lasers integrated on the backside of advanced  silicon photonic circuits. Scintil says its solution can boost  communications in data centers, high-performance computing (HPC), and 5G  networks (prime users of optical transceivers). The optical transceiver market  is expected to rise at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 14% from  2021 to $20.9bn in 2026. “The close collaboration with our  commercial foundry was key to achieving this fabrication milestone, resulting  in unprecedented levels of integration and performance,” says president &  CEO Sylvie Menezo. “Scintil is already working with three leading-edge  customers; it is fundamental to them that we can prototype and produce in  commercial high-volume silicon foundries, using multi-customer standard  processes.” The 1600Gb/s prototype IC integrates  silicon modulators and germanium photodetectors supporting 56GBaud PAM 4,  with integrated III-V-optical amplifiers. The IC technology offers the  capability of delivering sustainable bit rates through parallelization and  the increase of baud rates at a competitive cost per gigabit per second. The IC leverages wafer-scale bonding of  III-V materials on silicon for integrating optical amplifiers/lasers. The benefits in solving some key industry  challenges are said to include: Menezo is participating as a speaker  during the OFC symposium on ‘Emerging photonic interconnects and architectures  for femtojoule per bit intra data center links networks’ on 8  March (2–6:30pm PST). 