NeoPhotonics  launches ultra-narrow-linewidth laser for LEO satellites NeoPhotonics Corp of San Jose, CA, USA – a  vertically integrated designer and manufacturer of silicon photonics and  hybrid photonic integrated circuit (PIC)-based lasers, modules and  subsystems for high-speed communications – has launched a radiation-tolerant version of its Nano  ultra-pure-light tunable laser, for use in low-earth-orbit (LEO) satellite  communications applications. NeoPhotonics’ existing Nano-ITLA (integrated  tunable laser assembly) is in high-volume production for terrestrial  fiber-optics applications and is used by many of the leading optical networking  companies in their most advanced coherent pluggable modules and high-speed  embedded systems. The new radiation-tolerant laser introduces enhancements  including an adaptive approach to achieve extended-lifetime operation of the  proven Nano laser hardware in a radiation flux environment to enable reliable  operation in space without compromise to performance and stability. Multiple companies are now deploying or developing constellations  of low-earth-orbit satellites to bring high-bandwidth communications to areas not  currently served by wireless infrastructure. These constellations consist of  thousands of satellites which must have high-bandwidth connections between them  to avoid service drop-outs. These satellite-to-satellite communications links  are now shifting from microwave to coherent optical technology, taking  advantage of the vast increase in transmission capacity developed for  terrestrial fiber-optic communications, where 800Gbps is now regularly  transmitted on a single wavelength. While coherent communications technology is now highly advanced,  space is a hostile environment for the electronics and related hardware used in  telecommunications, largely due to radiation impacts from galactic cosmic rays,  high-energy particles from the sun, and particles trapped by the earth’s  magnetic field. Special ‘radiation hardened’ electronic devices, which are more  robust than those typically used on the ground, are often used to mitigate  these issues, but they can add significantly to cost. For the lasers used in  coherent communication, the control electronics are often more vulnerable to  these radiation effects than the laser itself. One example of the laser control subsystem electronics that is  particularly vulnerable to ionizing radiation is the memory (RAM and FLASH)  that microprocessors rely on. While radiation effects on memory can be lessened  by using special packaging or by more expensive hardware components, the  effects of ionizing radiation on memory corruption can also be mitigated by  incorporating radiation-tolerant software enhancements, resulting in greatly  improved reliability, recovery and resilience, as has been demonstrated during  laboratory testing designed to simulate low-earth-orbit conditions. “NeoPhotonics has been a leader in the design,  development and high-volume production of ultra-narrow-linewidth tunable lasers  for coherent communications over the last decade, and we are excited to offer  our high-performance to the exciting new application of satellite  communications,” says chairman & CEO Tim Jenks. “We have used our long  experience and deep understanding of lasers technology to develop an innovative  software-centric approach to radiation tolerance that speeds time to market,  while maintaining performance and limiting costs.” 