Acacia  launches 400G QSFP-DD pluggable coherent optical modules that further expand  transceiver applications Acacia  Communications Inc of Maynard, MA, USA (now part of Cisco) — which  develops and manufactures high-speed coherent optical interconnect products — is adding to its portfolio of 400G coherent pluggable solutions,  based on its Greylock 7nm digital signal  processor (DSP), with the new Bright 400ZR+ and ER1 400G pluggable  coherent optical modules. Early adopters of Acacia’s 400G pluggable  product family have been driving strong demand that has resulted in over 50,000  port shipments, with more than 20,000 shipped during Cisco’s fiscal second-quarter  (ending 29 January). The aggressive  ramp of these products has been faster than any previous coherent technology  generation, says the firm. Early demand has been driven largely by metro  data-center interconnect (DCI) use cases,  but service providers are actively working to deploy this technology in a wide  range of applications. With the new modules, Acacia has developed a portfolio  of solutions that further address the varying needs of network operators, while driving economies of scale on a  common technology platform. The 400G coherent pluggable market is one  of the most important developments in optical networking currently, says  Acacia. Analysts such as Cignal AI have stated that sales of 400ZR and  OpenZR+ are ramping rapidly, while Heavy Reading’s Sterling Perrin claims that “The advent of coherent  pluggable optics at 400G is one of the key enablers that was needed to propel  IP and optical integration into the mainstream.” New modules expand 400G QSFP-DD  applications and reduce cost, power consumption and network complexity The Bright 400ZR+ QSFP-DD pluggable  coherent optical module with high optical performance is designed for seamless  deployment in reconfigurable optical add-drop multiplexer (ROADM) line systems. For customers primarily targeting filtered  (AWG-based DWDM) point-to-point applications, the 400ZR and OpenZR+ modules are  an effective pluggable solution. Acacia’s Bright QSFP-DD module is designed to  expand the applications for this technology by addressing a variety of ROADM  architectures such as those with colorless multiplexing. With greater than 0dBm  transmit optical power and high  transmit optical signal-to-noise ratio (OSNR), the Bright 400ZR+ gives network  operators more flexibility to address a range of brownfield and greenfield applications  utilizing the high-density QSFP-DD form factor. “Colt  has successfully deployed 400G ZR+ on our IQ Network packet router  backbone. High-launch-power 400G ZR+ optics would be  an important step change for IPoDWDM deployments,”  comments Danny Pinto, associate director, Packet Networks  Engineering at Colt. “This would enable IPoDWDM uses cases  in meeting optical requirements of ROADM-based optical solutions and brownfield  deployments,” he adds. The Bright 400ZR+ QSFP-DD module also  supports OTN framing that can enable circuit emulation and pseudowire  functionality over packet networks, offering even greater flexibility for  network operators who want to deploy this pluggable technology. “Products  like Acacia’s high-transmission-power QSFP-DD modules and third-party  vendor-agnostic SDN could open the door for deeper packet and optical  integration in telco networks,” says Juan Pedro  Fernandez-Palacios, head of Transport at Telefonica CTIO. For upgrading from 100G to 400G with 40km  reach The 400G ER1 QSFP-DD pluggable coherent  optical module has a rich feature set  including client multiplexing and interoperability based on both OIF and  OpenZR+ protocols. Acacia’s ER1 400G module is reckoned to be a cost effective  and flexible solution for unamplified 40km point-to-point applications in  access, campus and 5G network applications. Leveraging proven expertise Acacia says that, to develop its new 400G  QSFP-DD modules, it leveraged its proven expertise in optical integration and  packaging. The firm’s expertise with high-performance silicon photonic integrated circuits (PICs)  and low-power DSPs has helped to enable the introduction of 3D Siliconization. Acacia’s 3D Siliconization applies integration and 3D stacking techniques to enable a single  device that includes all the high-speed optoelectronic functions necessary for  coherent communications. This device, which includes the DSP, photonic integrated circuitry,  drivers and transimpedance amplifiers (TIAs), is manufactured using standard  electronics packaging processes. Advantages of 3D Siliconization  include the reduction of electrical interconnects while improving signal  integrity, resulting in improvements in performance, cost, reliability, power  and size. 