McLaren Applied unveils  800V SiC inverter for fast charging and powertrain efficiency in EVs At the Future Propulsion Conference (FPC 2022) at the  UK’s National Motorcycle Museum on 2 March, McLaren Applied of Woking,  UK, says that it is advancing closer to full production of its Inverter Platform Generation 5  (IPG5) 800V silicon carbide (SiC) inverter. Moving to the engineering verification phase, McLaren Applied  is now supplying production intent design hardware to customers and  partners for continued development and testing. Harnessing IPG5, OEMs can  develop vehicles with greater ranges, faster charging times and better  acceleration, at a comparable cost with improved sustainability benefits, the  firm says.  McLaren Applied says that it is actively supporting the  increasing demand for electrification and high-efficiency power electronics  applications in the automotive market, as well as the commercial vehicle,  aerospace and marine sectors. It has been developing inverter technology for  over 10 years, through high-performance automotive and motorsport applications,  culminating in a fifth-generation inverter that takes development from Formula 1  and optimizes the technology for the automotive market. IPG5 can power electric motors to over 350kW peak (250kW  continuous) at a weight and volume of 5.5kg and 3.79L, respectively. It has  been designed for automotive applications (including direct drive) that  are capable of operating high-speed motors efficiently and adhere to ISO 26262  ASIL-D standards. The 800V architecture supports the next generation of electric vehicles  (EVs), offering lighter electric cabling and ultra-fast charging. Through enabling  a significant increase in switching frequency, SiC allows the use of a faster,  more efficient and lightweight drivetrain, including inverter, motor and  battery systems. It also switches more efficiently than conventional inverters,  producing less heat and enabling a smaller cooling system – all of which reduce  the weight and cost of the drivetrain. The increased drivetrain efficiency allows a reduction in battery  size – typically the most expensive single component in a battery electric vehicle,  which delivers further cost, weight and sustainability benefits, says McLaren Applied. “We’re delighted to advance to the next  stage of development and to begin delivering prototypes to customers [ahead of volume production from 2024],” says non-executive chairman Nick  Fry. “Across the industry, we’re  seeing rapid progression of technology – if OEMs want to remain competitive and  deliver vehicles with greater ranges, faster charging times and better  acceleration, they must make the transition to an 800V silicon carbide  architecture,” he believes. Strategic agreement to  develop and supply drivetrain components for BAK’s Kincsem Hyper GT and  SUV McLaren Applied has announced a collaboration with BAK Motors  (the Swiss-based parent company to new luxury automotive brand Kincsem) to  develop and supply drivetrain components (including inverters and motors) for  the Kincsem Hyper GT and SUV – said to be the world’s first nanophotonic  light-activated solid-state hydrogen hybrid hyper-car. BAK selected the IPG5  800V silicon carbide inverter for its powertrain efficiency and  performance improvements, says McLaren Applied. The Kincsem Hyper GT will pair McLaren Applied’s drivetrain  technology with a BAK-RICARDO hydrogen-powered hybrid engine, combining the  instant torque and acceleration of an e-motor with the high-revolution scream  of a hydrogen internal combustion engine. The same power unit will also  feature in the forthcoming Kincsem Hyper-SUV. The Kincsem Hyper-GT will be designed,  engineered and built in Britain, with first production of the road-legal  version commencing in 2024. 