Teledyne e2v HiRel unveils space-screened versions  of 650V, 60A GaN HEMTs Teledyne e2v HiRel  Electronics of Milpitas, CA, USA (part of the Teledyne Defense Electronics  Group that provides solutions, sub-systems and components to the space,  transportation, defense and industrial markets) has added new  space-screened versions of its 650V, 60A high-reliability gallium nitride  (GaN) high-electron-mobility transistors (GaN HEMTs). The new parts go through  NASA Level 1 screening flow and can be brought up to full  Level 1 conformance with extra qualification testing, if desired. Typical  applications include battery management, DC-DC converters, and space  motor drives. Two new parts are available, both  space-grade, 650V enhancement-mode, top-side-cooled GaN-on-silicon  power transistors. The properties of GaN allow for high current, high  voltage breakdown and high switching frequency, enabling  high-efficiency and high-power-density designs. The two models are: Each is available with options for EAR99  or European sourcing. Teledyne e2v HiRel’s GaN HEMTs feature  single-wafer lot traceability, extended temperature performance from -55°C to  +125°C, and low-inductance, low-thermal-resistance packaging. “Our GaN HEMT product family has been very  popular with customers, and we have had many requests for catalog versions with  standard space screening,” says Mont Taylor, VP of business development  for Teledyne e2v HiRel. “Our new 650V, 60A parts offer 100% screening  off-the-shelf, and we can do full level 1 qualification with customer  SCDs.” The firm notes that GaN devices have  revolutionized power conversion in other industries and are now available in  radiation-tolerant, plastic-encapsulated packaging that has undergone stringent  reliability and electrical testing to help ensure mission-critical success. The  release of the new GaN HEMTs delivers the efficiency, size and power-density  benefits required in critical aerospace and defense power applications, it adds. Both new devices are available for  ordering and immediate purchase from Teledyne e2v HiRel or an authorized  distributor. 