Teledyne e2v HiRel launches 100V high-speed 20MHz  FET and GaN transistor driver  flip-chip die Teledyne e2v HiRel  Electronics of Milpitas, CA, USA (part of the Teledyne Defense Electronics  Group that provides solutions, sub-systems and components to the space,  transportation, defense and industrial markets) has launched the TD99102 UltraCMOS high-speed FET and gallium nitride (GaN) transistor driver, offering very high switching speed of 20MHz.  The new flip-chip part is suitable for driving Teledyne HiRel’s 100V  high-reliability GaN HEMT devices in DC-DC, AC-DC converters, orbital  point-of-load (POL) modules and space motor drives. The TD99102 is an integrated high-speed  driver designed to control the gates of external power devices such as enhancement-mode GaN  high-electron-mobility transistor (HEMT) and power MOSFETs. The outputs of the  TD99102 are capable of providing switching transition speeds in the  sub-nanosecond range for switching applications up to 20MHz. The TD99102 is  optimized for matched dead time  and offers best-in-class propagation delay to improve system bandwidth, it is  claimed. High switching speeds  result in smaller peripheral components and enable innovative designs for  high-reliability orbital motor driver  and POL applications. The TD99102 is available as a bumped, flip-chip die to  enable minimum design footprint required for high-speed switching power applications. The TD99102 is manufactured on Peregrine’s  UltraCMOS process, a patented form of silicon-on-insulator (SOI) technology,  offering the performance of gallium arsenide  (GaAs) with the economy and integration of conventional CMOS. Featuring  100krad(Si) total ionizing dose  (TID), single event latch-up (SEL)  immunity and dead-time control, the new product offers 2A peak source and 4A  peak sink current. “We’ve been asked for drivers that get the  most out of our 100V GaN HEMT  transistors,” says Mont Taylor, VP of business development  for Teledyne e2v HiRel. “The TD99102’s fast edge speeds and radiation tolerance make  them ideal for the latest LEO and MEO constellations where efficiency is key,”  he adds. The TD99102 is available for ordering and immediate  purchase from Teledyne e2v HiRel or an authorized distributor. 