Lumentum announces pricing  of $750m convertible notes offering Lumentum Holdings Inc of San Jose,  CA, USA (which designs and makes photonics products for optical networks and  lasers for industrial and consumer markets) has announced the pricing of $750m of convertible senior notes  due 2028 in a private placement to qualified institutional buyers (pursuant to  Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended). Lumentum granted the  initial purchasers a 13-day option to purchase up to an additional $112.5m of  the notes. The sale of the notes to the initial purchasers is expected to  settle on 8 March (subject to customary closing conditions) and is  expected to result in about $743.2m (or $854.8m, if the initial purchasers  fully exercise their option to purchase additional notes) in net proceeds after  deducting the initial purchasers’ discount and estimated offering expenses  payable by Lumentum. The notes will be senior, unsecured obligations of Lumentum,  bearing interest at a rate of 0.50% per year (payable semi-annually in arrears  on 15 June and 15 December of each year, beginning on 15 June 2022). The notes will mature on 15 June 2028, unless earlier redeemed,  repurchased or converted. Lumentum intends to use a portion of the net proceeds of the  offering to purchase about $200m of its common stock  concurrently with the pricing of this offering in privately negotiated  transactions effected through one of the initial purchasers of the notes or its  affiliate, as Lumentum’s agent. Lumentum intends to use the remaining net  proceeds for general corporate purposes, which may include capital expenditures  and working capital. The initial conversion rate for the notes is 7.6319 shares of  Lumentum common stock per $1000 of notes (equivalent to an initial conversion  price of about $131.03 per share) and is subject to adjustment upon the  occurrence of certain events. Prior to the close of business on the business  day immediately preceding 15 March  2028, the notes will be convertible at the option of the noteholders upon  satisfaction of specified conditions and during certain periods. Thereafter,  until the close of business on the second scheduled trading day preceding the  maturity date, the notes will be convertible at the option of the noteholders  at any time regardless of these conditions. Conversions of the notes will be  settled in cash, shares of common stock  or a combination of cash and shares, with the form of consideration at  Lumentum’s election. The initial conversion price represents a premium of about  32.5% over the last reported sale price of Lumentum’s common stock on 3 March of $98.89 per share. Lumentum may redeem for cash all or any portion of the notes, at  its option (subject to certain limitations), on or after 20 June 2025, if the last reported sale  price of its common stock has been  at least 130% of the conversion price then in effect for at least 20 trading  days (whether or not consecutive) during any 30 consecutive trading-day period  (including the last trading day of such period) ending on, and including, the  trading day immediately preceding the date on which Lumentum provides notice of  redemption at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the  notes to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the  redemption date. No sinking fund is provided for the notes. 