POET announces product demos and technology showcase at OFC At the Optical Fiber  Conference (OFC 2022) exhibition at the San Diego Convention Center (8-10 March), POET Technologies Inc of Toronto, Ontario,  Canada — a designer and developer of the POET Optical Interposer and  photonic integrated circuits (PICs) for the data-center and telecom  markets — is demonstrating two advanced Optical Engine products and participating in a ‘Technology Showcase’ event. The Optical Engine products will include a 200G FR4 TX  (transmit) engine and a 400G FR4 RX (receive) engine, which will be demonstrated  live to customers, business partners, analysts, media and other attendees by  appointment in the firm’s booth (#5301). Also, at 12:30–1pm PST on 9 March chairman & CEO Dr Suresh  Venkatesan will be appearing at the OFC Technology Showcase event at the Expo  Theater III (on the exhibit floor)  presenting a talk ‘Hybrid Integration Platform for Co-packaged Photonics  using POET’s CMOS-based Optical Interposer’. The firm has also announced its recent appointment of Raju  Kankipati to VP of product line management, heading up product management  and sales & marketing. Kankipati has more than 20 years of experience in optical  transceivers, optical components, cloud data-center and optical networks. Most  recently he was employed at MACOM, where he was the senior director of product  management for optical components, including lasers, photodetectors, silicon photonics,  and photonic solutions. Prior to MACOM, he worked at Arista Networks as a senior product  manager and engineering manager. During this time, he collaborated closely with  data-center customers to bring unique switching products as well as optical  transceivers to market, helping customers to deploy 40G and 100G products to  enhance the scalability and efficiency of their networks. Previous positions included product manager at Cisco and engineering  and management positions at Opnext in Japan (now part of Lumentum). He received his MBA degree from UC Berkeley (Haas School of  Business) and completed his Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics at Birla  Institute of Technology and Science (BITS) Pilani, India. 