HP and Ayar Labs to co-develop silicon photonics-based optical I/O for HPC and AI Texas-based Hewlett Packard Enterprise and chip-to-chip  optical connectivity firm Ayar Labs of Santa  Clara, CA, USA have announced a multi-year strategic collaboration to  develop silicon photonics-based  optical I/O technology, supporting future requirements for high-performance  computing (HPC) and artificial intelligence  (AI) solutions. The two organizations also announced that HPE’s venture arm Hewlett Packard Pathfinder has made a  strategic investment in Ayar Labs to  accelerate the development and adoption of joint future technologies. As part  of the collaboration, HPE and Ayar Labs will partner on photonics research and  commercial development, building a joint ecosystem of solution providers, and  customer engagements. The collaboration will focus on Ayar Labs’ development of  high-speed, high-density, low-power optical-based interconnects to target  future generations of HPE Slingshot,  the industry’s only high-performance Ethernet fabric specifically designed for  HPC and AI solutions. By combining these technologies, the teams are positioned  to design next-generation high-performance networking solutions and novel  disaggregated system architectures that are critical for increased flexibility,  efficiency, performance and throughput to support data-intensive demands of  future workloads. “We continue to invest in and develop our HPC and AI technologies  to further boost application performance for our customers and help them unlock  greater value from their research, engineering and business initiatives,” says  Justin Hotard, senior VP &  general manager, HPC and AI, at  HPE. “By partnering with Ayar Labs, we will advance innovation for the HPC and  AI market, and leverage their expertise in optical I/O in future generations of  HPE Slingshot to deliver unprecedented bandwidth and speed, at lower levels of  power and latency, to meet requirements for growing demands in scale and  performance.” As the industry enters the exascale era (representing an increase  in performance and advanced capabilities for HPC and AI), electrical-based  networking offerings will eventually reach bandwidth limits, creating  challenges in latency and overall application performance. To prepare for and  address these future challenges, HPE and Ayar Labs plan to develop capabilities  that leverage silicon photonics-based  optical I/O technology to integrate with HPE Slingshot, a purpose-built HPC and  AI interconnect designed for next-generation technologies, such as the upcoming  US Department of Energy exascale supercomputers. Optical I/O uniquely changes the performance and power  trajectories of system designs by enabling compute, memory and networking ASICs  to communicate with dramatically increased bandwidth, at a lower latency, and  at a fraction of the power of existing electrical I/O solutions. The technology  is also foundational to enabling emerging heterogeneous compute systems,  disaggregated, pooled designs, and unified memory architectures that are  critical to accelerating future innovation. “HPE is the leader in advanced systems architectures for HPC, AI,  and networking,” says Ayar Labs’ CEO Charles Wuischpard. “This collaboration  will accelerate the introduction of a whole new class of system architectures  that overcome the existing limitations of traditional interconnects, ushering  in a new era for efficient scalable high-performance computing,” he believes. “Ayar Labs represents an exciting investment opportunity for  Hewlett Packard Pathfinder as we closely support HPE’s HPC and AI  initiatives,” comments Paul Glaser, VP & head of Hewlett Packard  Pathfinder. “Ayar Labs’ optical I/O technology is highly differentiated and  critical to the evolution of high-performance computing architectures.” 