Wolfspeed announces $250,000 gift to SUNY Poly Foundation State University of  New York Polytechnic Institute (SUNY Poly) has joined Wolfspeed  Inc (formerly Cree Inc) of Durham, NC, USA in announcing a $250,000  Wolfspeed Curriculum Gift, which is  earmarked for enhancing educational science,  technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) opportunities for  SUNY Poly students, especially those from traditionally underserved  backgrounds. The funding is expected to provide new high-tech equipment and  expanded curricula at SUNY Poly that dovetails with Wolfspeed’s future  workforce needs, ensuring that students’ educational experience is highly  translatable to the opportunities that will be available as part of Wolfspeed’s  Mohawk Valley Fab — the world’s first 200mm silicon carbide (SiC)  fabrication facility. “At Wolfspeed, we are passionate about  giving back to the communities where we live and work, this includes supporting  and educating the next generation of the high-tech workforce,” says the firm’s chief technical officer &  co-founder Dr John Palmour. “We invest with strategic partners such as  SUNY Poly to build a strong talent pipeline to develop great technologists  and leaders,” he adds. SUNY Poly’s  partnership with Wolfspeed will “further facilitate even deeper synergies  between our semiconductor-centered curricula and the critical workforce needs  of Wolfspeed’s world-class fab at the Marcy Nanocenter,” says SUNY Poly’s acting president Dr Tod A. Laursen. “This initiative will provide an  impactful platform for students to graduate with the skills needed to support  the Mohawk Valley and New York State’s burgeoning semiconductor industry,  allowing them to seamlessly transition to Wolfspeed’s state-of-the-art fab  thanks to their invaluable commitment to our students, this institution, and  our region,” he adds. “I am extremely grateful to Wolfspeed for  providing critical, targeted funding so that growing numbers of SUNY Poly  students will have an education that sets the stage for a lifetime of success  working with Wolfspeed in the Mohawk Valley,” comments SUNY Poly  Foundation chair Stephen Teti. Working closely together, SUNY Poly  faculty and Wolfspeed designees will determine new equipment that can  complement strategically targeted coursework to align the skillsets of students  in related innovation-centered programs with the experience and knowledge  required for success at Wolfspeed’s Marcy fab. Full content updates are planned  for such programs starting in the 2022/2023 academic year. More specifically, curricular expansion  includes the following areas, with the development of certificates or  micro-credentials for each that students will receive upon completion: The curriculum gift is also complementary  to Wolfspeed’s earlier commitment in 2021 to fund a $2,000,000 scholarship  program over 10 years, which has already awarded a total of $46,000 to  SUNY Poly students at both its Albany and Utica campuses who are  interested in pursuing a career in the semiconductor industry. Wolfspeed has  also engaged SUNY Poly students through hands-on internship opportunities  and a donation of $25,000 to the SUNY Poly Foundation in November 2019 to  expand SUNY Poly’s STEM programs. Wolfspeed’s co-founders Dr John  Edmond and Dr John Palmour were also previously announced  SUNY Polytechnic Institute Endowed Faculty Chairs, representing $1,500,000  in funding over five years that underpins the continued expansion of STEM  opportunities for students at SUNY Poly. Wolfspeed is currently constructing its  Mohawk Valley Fab in Marcy, New York, and has committed to creating more  than 600 new jobs within eight years as well as providing internships for  SUNY students as part of its presence. The efforts aim to develop an advanced  manufacturing-oriented workforce development initiative across the SUNY system  to prepare a 21st-century workforce for the long-term, high-quality  employment and advancement opportunities that the new facility will present. 