NeoPhotonics samples Open ZR+ QSFP-DD transceivers NeoPhotonics Corp of San Jose,  CA, USA – a vertically integrated designer and  manufacturer of silicon photonics and hybrid photonic integrated circuit  (PIC)-based lasers, modules and subsystems for high-speed communications – has  announced sample availability for its Open ZR+ QSFP-DD transceivers. Based on NeoPhotonics’ optical components, ultra-low-noise tunable  lasers and proven 400ZR design, the Open ZR+ version of the QSFP-DD uses  the Marvell Deneb coherent digital signal processor (CDSP) to  incorporate industry-standard open forward-error correction (OFEC).  NeoPhotonics is a contributor to the Open ZR+ multi-source agreement  (MSA), which defines interoperability specifications for OpenZR+. By using OFEC, the required optical  signal-to-noise ratio (rOSNR) capability of NeoPhotonics transceivers is  improved beyond traditional 400ZR CFEC (concatenated  forward-error correction), allowing for multiple span coverage in  amplified networks. This may be applied to metro and IP-over-DWDM networks with  extended-reach scenarios, with data-rate coverage from 100Gb/s to 400Gb/s. In addition, there are a number of applications where the fiber reach  may not exceed the OIF ZR specifications but, because of older fiber, patch  panels and other impairments, the link loss and impairment budgets could  exceed that of a standard 400ZR link. In these cases, NeoPhotonics’ Open ZR+ module can be used for  400G upgrades, where standard solutions are not practical. More background  information on coherent communications in pluggable modules can be found in a  series of ‘Trends and Technology’ presentations on the NeoPhotonics website. “NeoPhotonics has developed an Open ZR+ solution to take  advantage of the benefits of IP-over-DWDM and because many customers are  interested in utilizing small-form-factor coherent modules deeper into their  networks,” says chairman & CEO Tim Jenks. “Our Open ZR+ QSFP-DD  transceivers combine an extended network reach and interoperable OFEC with  our proven optical component and transceiver designs to address these needs,”  he adds. “The transceivers also augment our proven 400ZR solutions, which  have multiple design wins at cloud and data-center switch customers, with  new Open 400ZR+-compliant QSFP-DD and OSFP modules. The ability to  transmit 400Gb/s over distances as long as 800km and more in a cost-effective  manner is a real game changer,” concludes Jenks. 