Aixtron ships AIX 2800G4-TM and AIX G5+ C MOCVD systems to HC Semitek Deposition equipment  maker Aixtron SE of Herzogenrath, near Aachen, Germany says that in fourth-quarter 2021 it shipped  AIX 2800G4-TM (IC2) and AIX G5+ C metal-organic  chemical vapor deposition (MOCVD) systems (all in 8x6-inch configuration)  to China-based chipmaker HC Semitek. HC Semitek is positioning itself for  micro-LED technology (a strong emerging market in the display industry) that  enables what is described as unmatched pixel resolution,  superior display quality and much  higher current efficacy than  existing display technologies. To achieve these benefits, the next generation  of LED displays will require millions of micron-size LEDs to be transferred  onto one single display, which has driven LED suppliers to develop new  mass-transfer technologies. To enable this, large arrays of LEDs are  taken directly from the processed LED wafers, making any upfront wafer binning or sorting of defective chips  obsolete. Consequently, says Aixtron, it  is essential that all epitaxial wafers produced have a very tight wavelength  distribution and a very low level of defects on their surfaces, calling for new  MOCVD approaches. Aixtron says that its Planetary system features  wafer-level control of the film surface temperature during the epitaxial  process. This enables very accurate control of the indium incorporation into  the multi-quantum wells (MQW), which  will ultimately define the wavelength consistency among all produced wafers.  Cassette-to-cassette automation - coupled with in-situ cleaning - ensure that  no particle will contaminate the films during handling or the epitaxy  processing, says the firm. “Aixtron  has been our trustable and reliable partner for MOCVD solutions over the past  15 years. We are delighted to now  strengthen our cooperation in the area of micro-LED products,” says HC Semitek’s CEO Dr Jianhui Zhou. “Aixtron’s  Planetary technology has been well proven for the best uniformity and low  particle performance… This is a key step for the commercialization of  micro-LEDs and will reinforce HC Semitek's  leading position in the display market,” he reckons. “We are looking forward to supporting the  acceleration of the roll out of micro-LEDs for displays,” says Aixtron’s CEO & president Dr Felix Grawert. “Micro-LED technology is  disrupting the existing display ecosystem, embracing methods and approaches  only seen in the semiconductor industry. Our Planetary technology platform  solutions perfectly fulfill these stringent epitaxial requirements,” he believes. 