EPC adds 3-phase BLDC motor drive inverter for e-bikes, drones and robotics Efficient  Power Conversion Corp (EPC) of El Segundo, CA, USA – which makes  enhancement-mode gallium nitride on silicon (eGaN) power  field-effect transistors (FETs) and integrated circuits for power  management applications – has announced  the availability of the EPC9167, a 3-phase BLDC  (brushless DC) motor drive inverter using the EPC2065 eGaN FET.  It operates from an input supply voltage of 14-60V (nominal 48V) and has two  configurations – a standard unit and a high-current version: Both versions  contain all the necessary critical function circuits to support a complete  motor drive inverter including gate drivers, regulated auxiliary power rails for housekeeping supplies, voltage,  and temperature sense, accurate current sense,  and protection functions. The boards also feature ST  Microelectronics’ STDRIVEG600  smart motor drive GaN half-bridge  driver. The EPC9167  boards measure just 130mm x 100mm (including connector).  The boards can also be configured for  multi-phase DC–DC conversion and support both phase and leg shunt current sensing. Benefits of a  GaN-based motor drive with these reference design  boards are said to include lower distortion for lower acoustic noise, lower current ripple for reduced magnetic loss, lower torque ripple for improved precision, and lower filtering for  lower cost.  The EPC9167 boards’ lower  weight and size enable incorporation of the drive into the motor housing and  supports low-inductance, higher-power-density motors. EPC provides full  demonstration kits, which include interface boards that connect the inverter  board to the controller board  development tool for fast prototyping that reduce design cycle times. The default  setting for the GaN-based motor drive kit is 100kHz switching frequency and 14ns deadtime. While the  kit is designed to be programmed for different frequencies and deadtimes,  operation at high frequency around 100kHz allows for the elimination of  electrolytic capacitors and the use of lower capacitance, and reduce the motor  losses. Operating the boards with very small deadtime of around 14ns allows  higher torque per ampere. The joint effect is to improve inverter and motor  system efficiency of more than 7%  versus a silicon MOSFET solution which typically operates at 20kHz and 500ns  deadtime. “GaN-based  inverters increase motor efficiency while reducing their cost and delivering  the same performance as an expensive motor using a silicon MOSFET-based  inverter,” says CEO Alex Lidow. “This enables motor systems that are smaller,  lighter, less noisy, have more torque, more range, and greater precision.” The EPC9167  reference design board is priced at $611.58 and the EPC9167HC reference design is priced at $678.78. Both are  available for immediate delivery from distributor Digi-KeyCorp. 