POET proceeding with ten-for-one share consolidation on TSXV As the next step in the process to achieve listing on the Nasdaq  Capital Market, POET Technologies Inc of Toronto, Ontario, Canada  — a designer and developer of the POET Optical Interposer and photonic  integrated circuits (PICs) for the data-center and telecom markets —  has determined to proceed with a ten-for-one consolidation of its common shares  in order to meet Nasdaq listing requirements and the company’s own  post-consolidation price target. The firm expects that trading of the common shares on a  post-consolidation basis on the TSX Venture Exchange (TSXV) will  commence on or about 28 February. Its name and trading symbol (‘PTK’) on  the TSXV will remain unchanged. The consolidation was previously approved by  the board on the recommendation of its subcommittee, as well as by shareholders  at their recent annual general and special meeting. The board believes that the consolidation will result in a number  of potential benefits to POET, including meeting the minimum bid price  requirement for the Nasdaq listing and achieving a post-consolidation share price  target that will support attracting a broader institutional investor base for  the company. The firm has been notified that an approval letter from Nasdaq  will be issued following a minimum 5 days of trading of its  post-consolidated shares on the TSXV. The common shares are expected to  begin trading on the Nasdaq about 7–10 days following consolidation, but  the timing cannot be assured. Once final, the shares will trade on the Nasdaq  Capital Market under the symbol ‘POET’. “We have said that we would uplist to the Nasdaq when the time was  right and from a position of strength, and we believe that time is now,” says  chairman & CEO Suresh Venkatesan. “We are making substantial progress  across a broad range of prospective customers with both standard and advanced  products. Although there is still much work to be done in collaboration with  customers and suppliers to achieve commercial success, it is abundantly clear  to us that the company is moving in the right direction, both technically and  commercially,” he adds. “We believe we should act now and advance to a stock  market where we believe POET’s accomplishments and future potential will be  more widely appreciated and rewarded.” The consolidation has no material impact on the dollar value of  investor’s shares. The 364,967,272 common shares currently issued and  outstanding will be reduced to about 36,496,727 on a post-consolidation basis.  No fractional common shares will be issued as a result of or upon the  consolidation. All fractions of post-consolidation common shares will be  rounded down. Outstanding stock options and share purchase warrants  will also be adjusted to give effect to the consolidation in accordance with  their terms. The consolidation will not affect any shareholder’s percentage  ownership in the company other than by the minimal effect of the elimination of  fractional common shares, even though shareholder ownership will be  represented by a smaller number of common shares. 