Porotech secures $20m Series A investment Porotech (which was spun off in 2020 from the Cambridge  Centre for Gallium Nitride at the UK’s University of Cambridge) has  secured $20m Series A investment to accelerate global expansion and mass  production of its micro-LED products. The funding is designed to ensure that the  company keeps pace with growing demand from its customers and partners in the  $140bn display market. A “multi-national electronics giant”  is among the participants in the Series A funding round, which has been  led by Ameba Capital and includes previous investor Speedinvest. Porotech says that its PoroGaN  porous gallium nitride (GaN) material enables the firm’s micro-LED  products to deliver monochrome and full-color displays on a single indium gallium nitride  (InGaN) material system, with the brightness, efficiency and resolution  required for high-quality image projection against bright backgrounds – even  outdoors in daylight. The red micro-LED product is already achieving  best-in-class performance, it is claimed. Micro-LED displays will play a  vital role in the next generation of TVs, wearables and smartphones, and  GaN-based material technology is widely seen as the only technology that can  deliver displays that are bright and efficient enough to meet the requirements  of extended reality (XR) displays involving virtual reality (VR),  augmented reality (AR) and/or mixed reality (MR), says Porotech. Until now, the requirement to mix  multiple material systems has complicated the manufacturing of full-color  micro-LED displays, making the final products prohibitively expensive for  mass-market applications, the firm says, adding that its use of a single  material system opens the door to mass manufacturing of micro-LED displays. “We have delivered the world’s  first InGaN-based red micro-LEDs and displays and have set up production of our  first products – shipping to some of the biggest global names in display  technology,” says CEO & co-founder Dr Tongtong Zhu. “This latest funding will  accelerate our work to ensure that PoroGaN drives the commercialization of XR glasses  and the new wave of user-interface innovation. It will help us to continue our expansion  plans to meet demand and to continue to provide world-class service and  products to our rapidly expanding customer and partner base,” he adds. “The fact that it already has  industry leaders among its clients and partners is a testament to the  game-changing potential of Porotech's breakthrough,” comments Arthur Chen, a  partner at Ameba Capital. 