Navitas and UGREEN announce GaNFast Global Marketing Program Gallium nitride (GaN) power integrated circuit firm Navitas  Semiconductor Corp of El Segundo, CA, USA and Dublin, Ireland has  announced a GaNFast Global Marketing Program with consumer electronics and  accessory specialist UGREEN. The program builds on the companies’ technology  partnership to create awareness of GaN and education for global consumers.  In-person and on-line events emphasize the capability of GaN technology to set  all-new standards in fast charging, with miniaturized form factors,  and significant sustainability benefits to reduce energy consumption and  carbon emissions. Under the new program, UGREEN invited Navitas to participate in  the live broadcast launch of the new 100W four-port GaN charger, during which Navitas’ Dr Xiucheng Haung provided insight into the benefits of GaN,  its impact on charger performance and relevance to the consumer industry. GaN  runs up to 20x faster than legacy silicon and enables up to 3x more power, 40%  energy savings and 3x faster charging in half the size and weight. Navitas’  GaNFast power ICs integrate GaN  power and drive plus protection and control circuits to deliver simple, small,  fast and efficient performance. Additional cooperation to increase global consumer awareness of  GaN and associated charger products includes enhanced product promotion via the  companies’ official websites, social media channels, conference/trade show  booths including the Consumer Electronics Show (CES 2022), and video  displays on the Nasdaq building in Times Square, New York. “We have already established a highly successful relationship with  UGREEN at the product technology level,” says Charles Zha, VP &  general manager of Navitas China. “This new program builds on that  success and takes it to a new level by strengthening the depth of cooperative  marketing. Together, we will offer more in-depth knowledge for the market and  consumers and also strengthen the link between the power semiconductor  industry and the 3C digital product industry,” he adds. “This partnership is a natural next step for our two companies to  raise awareness about GaN technology. UGREEN, as a world-renowned 3C digital  manufacturer, always has a keen sense for innovative technologies and is  willing to invest time in developing them,” says Evan Li, vice president  of UGREEN. “Navitas, as a global leader in GaN-powered semiconductors, has  diligently and meticulously validated its revolutionary technology and striven  to bring energy-efficient solutions to every customer. This collaboration will  turn UGREEN’s products into game-changers that benefit users around the world  and contribute to carbon-neutral initiatives which match UGREEN’s company  values.” 