Transphorm to uplist from OTCQX to Nasdaq Capital Market Transphorm Inc of Goleta, near  Santa Barbara, CA, USA — which designs and manufactures JEDEC- and  AEC-Q101-qualified gallium nitride (GaN) field-effect transistors  (FETs) for high-voltage power conversion — says that its common stock  has been approved for listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market. Trading on Nasdaq is expected to commence at the market open on 22 February, and the shares will continue to  trade under the ticker symbol ‘TGAN’. They will continue to trade on the OTCQX  until trading on Nasdaq commences. Stockholders are not required to take any  action as a result of the uplisting. “Our uplisting to Nasdaq is a significant milestone for Transphorm  and is a testament to the dedication and hard work of the Transphorm team, as  well as our strong cooperation with our valued customers and partners,” says president  & co-founder Primit Parikh. “This uplisting should raise the visibility of  Transphorm in the capital markets and allow for increased sponsorship from  worldwide institutional investors as well as increased liquidity in the trading  volume of our stock,” he believes. “This achievement and recognition represents a key benchmark for  both GaN and Transphorm,” says chief technology officer  & co-founder Umesh Mishra. “With our world-leading innovations in GaN and  robust IP portfolio of more than 1000 patents, we are proud to be a world  leader in GaN power conversion, which is the next large market for GaN since  GaN LEDs and GaN RF transistors.” Transphorm claims that its patented GaN platform differs from  competing solutions in ways that are crucial to power conversion application performance requirements – from 45W  fast chargers/power adapters to 4kW gaming, data-center  server, crypto mining, and  industrial power supplies to  renewable energy to higher-power  automotive converter and inverter applications through multi tens of kilowatt.  Transphormalso claims to be one of the few high-voltage GaN manufacturers that  is vertically integrated, controlling its GaN FET  designs through innovation, epitaxial wafer and manufacturing processes. The company also recently announced that product revenue grew  sequentially for an eighth consecutive quarter (up 220% year-on-year to a  record $3.6m), and shipped over 1 million  SuperGaN Gen IV FETs for 45-300W  power-adapter and fast-charger  applications in December. 