II-VI unveils pluggable optical line subsystem in QSFP form factor II-VI Inc of Saxonburg, PA, USA, which provides  optical communications solutions for datacom and telecom networks, has launched  its pluggable optical line subsystem (POLS) in the small QSFP  form factor for eight-channel  400ZR/ZR+ transport in data-center interconnects (DCIs). The aggressive buildout of mega-datacenters is driving an  exponential increase in DCIs and fueling the demand for optical transport systems that are more compact  and power-efficient, as well as easier to install, configure and operate, notes  the firm. The new POLS product, the QSFP-LS, is designed in the very compact  QSFP form factor that plugs directly  into a switch or router QSFP port, transparent to the port speed, and enables full-duplex  multi-channel 400ZR/ZR+ transport, including multiplexing, demultiplexing, and  variable-gain amplification. The QSFP-LS supports up to eight DWDM wavelengths  at 400Gbps, or 3.2Tbps per fiber pair. “In the last several years, we’ve led the industry in offering  breakthrough solutions at scale of our miniature optical amplifier components, including our flagship 3-pin uncooled  micro-pump,” claims chief marketing officer  Dr Sanjai Parthasarathi. “These  components are now the building blocks that differentiate our POLS platform,”  he adds. “The QSFP-LS is one of our most advanced integrated products and the  tiniest open line system on the  market. It’s about one-fifth the size of similar amplifier module technology  ten years ago and consumes one-third  the power, enabling it to remain within the maximum power-dissipation  requirements for any QSFP socket. Compared to similar functionality in a  dedicated rack-mounted line system, the QSFP-LS consumes about half the amount  of power, is about a fifth of the cost, and occupies orders of magnitude less  space.” II-VI expanded its POLS platform by adding the QSFP-LS to the  OSFP-LS, which was introduced in March 2020. The availability of POLS in both  the QSFP and OSFP form factors  provides a universal optical amplifier  building block that is compatible with some of the most widely available  plug-in sockets in switches and routers. “With the original OSFP-LS and now the QSFP-LS available, we have  a greatly simplified transport solution that eliminates the need for dedicated  rack-mounted line systems, which will significantly reduce the number of  network elements to be installed, powered up, configured, and monitored,” says  Martin Hull, VP of platform products  at Arista Networks. “POLS technology represents a paradigm shift in data-center  interconnects that is complementary to and on par with the advent of 400ZR/ZR+  pluggable transceivers, in terms of greater equipment density, lower power consumption, and pay-as-you-grow  flexibility that now extends to QSFP ports.” The QSFP-LS extends II-VI’s family of pluggable modules for  coherent transmission, including the 400G ZR+ QSFP-DD-DCO transceiver, which  was recently honored by Lightwave Innovation Reviews. II-VI is highlighting the  applications and benefits of both products on a panel at a webinar ‘Deploying  IP over DWDM with 400 ZR+’ hosted by Cignal AI  on 24 February (11am US Eastern  Time). 