Infineon investing €2bn in third module at Malaysia front-end fab for wide-bandgap power semiconductors Infineon  Technologies AG of Munich, Germany is  investing more than €2bn to add significant manufacturing capacities in  wide-bandgap power semiconductors by building a third module at its site  in Kulim, Malaysia. Once fully equipped, the new Kulim 3 module should  generate €2bn in additional annual revenue from products based on silicon carbide  (SiC) and gallium nitride (GaN).  Picture: Aerial view of Infineon’s front-end fab in  Kulim, Malaysia. Following the  company’s long-term manufacturing strategy, the expansion will benefit from the  economies of scale already achieved for 200mm manufacturing in Kulim,  complementing Infineon’s position in silicon, based on 300mm manufacturing in  Villach and Dresden, Germany. “Renewable  energies and electro-mobility are major drivers for a strong and sustainable  rise in power semiconductor demand,” says chief operations officer Jochen  Hanebeck. “The expansion of our SiC and GaN capacity is readying Infineon for  the acceleration of wide-bandgap markets,” he adds. “We are creating a winning  combination of our development competence center in Villach and  cost-effective production in Kulim for wide-bandgap power semiconductors.” Infineon  already provides more than 3000 customers with SiC-based products, which offer  better system performance in terms of efficiency, size and cost compared with  silicon-based solutions. Focus applications are industrial power supply,  photovoltaic, transportation, drives, automotive and electric vehicle (EV)  charging. Infineon is  targeting revenue of $1bn with SiC-based power semiconductors by the  middle of the decade. The GaN market is also predicted to rise at a compound  annual growth rate (CAGR) of 76% from $47m in 2020 to $801m in 2025 (according  to Yole’s ‘Compound Semiconductor Quarterly Market Monitor Q3 2021’). Construction  of Kulim 3 will begin in June and the fab will be ready for equipment in  summer 2024. The first wafers will leave the fab in second-half 2024. Once  fully loaded, Kulim 3 will create 900 jobs. The investment in Kulim  will comprise significant value-added steps, in particular epitaxial processes  and wafer singulation. “Malaysia is  one of Infineon’s main regional hubs and this further investment truly attests  to our conducive ecosystem and the capability of our local talent to support  long-term growth,” says Malaysia’s Senior Minister and Minister of  International Trade and Industry Dato’ Seri Mohamed Azmin Ali.  “The Government, through Malaysian Investment Development Authority (MIDA),  will continue working closely with our strategic investors to solidify  Malaysia’s prominence as a key semiconductor hub in the region.” The Villach  site will continue to serve as the innovation base and global competence center  for wide-bandgap technology by converting existing silicon facilities over the  next few years. 6” and 8” silicon lines will be converted to SiC and GaN  manufacturing by repurposing non-specific silicon equipment. The Villach site  is currently preparing for further growth opportunities. 