pSemi launches sub-6GHz SP4T RF SOI switches Murata company pSemi Corp of San Diego,  CA, USA – a fabless provider of radio-frequency integrated circuits  (RFICs) based on silicon-on-insulator (SOI) – has expanded its portfolio of RF SOI switches targeted for the latest 5G wireless infrastructure and massive MIMO base-station deployments. By using  the new high-linearity switches in hybrid architecture topologies, base-station  designers can save valuable board space  and improve thermal management, reducing the overall system’s cost, weight and  power consumption. pSemi’s SP4T switches deliver what is claimed to be  best-in-class linearity, insertion loss  and power-handling performance to improve spectral efficiency in sub-6GHz  active antenna systems. High  linearity and high power handling  maximizes data throughput, low insertion loss  improves overall system efficiency, and fast switching speed supports symbol-level analog beam adjustments to  enable massive MIMO systems. Covering a frequency range of 1.8-5GHz, each UltraCMOS PE42443 and  PE42444 switch delivers what is claimed to be industry-leading RF performance across the n41, n77, n78 and  n79 bands. 5G base stations covering sub-6GHz offer network  providers an immediate path to wider bandwidths and increased data throughput.  New 3-5GHz allocations and added antenna design complexities create the need  for new hybrid beam-forming and phase-shifting topologies. Massive MIMO systems use hybrid architectures to  minimize power-hungry digital processing and reduce the number of power amplifier components. These hybrid  architectures offer the ideal balance of digital and analog, says pSemi,  combining the flexibility of digital beam-forming with the power efficiency and design simplicity at the  analog RF front-end (RFFE).  Picture:   Two back-to-back pSemi SP4T switches with  selectable phase shifts enable the  analog beam control utilized in  hybrid beam-forming architectures. This phase-shifter topology improves antenna  beam steering and control in active antenna systems. “Active antenna systems are driving a drastic increase in demand  for RFFE components, along with tougher FR1 switching requirements for advanced  5G networks,” notes Vikas Choudhary, VP of sales  and marketing. “pSemi continues to push the boundaries of SOI technology and  design RFIC solutions that empower base-station OEMs and support the demands of  5G and beyond,” he adds. Available in two pin-to-pin compatible configurations, the PE42443  (negative and positive supply voltage)  and the PE42444 (positive supply voltage  only) are offered in 4mm x 4mm LGA packages. 