Wolfspeed’s John Palmour elected to US National Academy of Engineering Wolfspeed Inc (formerly Cree Inc) of  Durham, NC, USA – which makes silicon carbide materials as well as  silicon carbide (SiC) and gallium nitride (GaN) power-switching &  RF semiconductor devices – says  that the US National Academy of Engineering has elected its co-founder &  chief technology officer Dr John Palmour into its 2022 class for the  development of SiC-based advanced electronic devices. Membership in the National Academy of Engineering honors those who  have made outstanding contributions to engineering research and practice,  including pioneering of new and developing fields of technology and making  major advancements in engineering. This year, 111 new members and 22 international members were  elected. Their formal induction will take place on 2 October at the National Academy of Engineering’s Annual  Meeting. Palmour was one of the graduate students from North Carolina State University who founded the  company (then Cree) in 1987. Now, over 30 years  later, the business has grown into the pure-play power semiconductor firm Wolfspeed,  focused on the industry transition from silicon to silicon carbide. “His passion and expertise with this transformational technology  has led our team to groundbreaking innovation over the years and today is  enabling us to help our customers reach new levels of energy efficiency,”  comments CEO Gregg Lowe. Silicon carbide is  currently utilized in technologies from electric vehicles  (EVs) to gaming systems to industrial motors,  renewable energy and energy storage.  Palmour has championed and innovated silicon carbide  for power and GaN-on-SiC for RF for over 30 years,  enabling faster, more energy-efficient technologies that are said to be  foundational for many industries as they prepare and adapt for a more  sustainable future. Palmour has authored a total of 386 scientific publications and  holds 81 US patents in the areas of processing and device designs for silicon carbide and gallium nitride electronic devices. 