CrayoNano secures UV-C LED chip supply for ramp-up to volume production CrayoNano AS of Trondheim, Norway – which  develops and manufactures semiconductor components based on patented and  proprietary nanomaterials technology – has executed the first high-volume supplier contract, with an  undisclosed manufacturer, for over 1 million  units of UV-C LED packaged chips  targeted for the water disinfection market following its controlled market entry plan. The contract also secures  long-term capacity ramp-up beyond 10 million  units/year manufacturing. CrayoNano says that this is a strategic partnership  to develop its product roadmap according to market and customer requirements. The supplier is a specialist in semiconductor packaging technology  and will manufacture a customized, high-performing package specifically for  CrayoNano’s UV-C LED product series.  The product specifications are co-designed with key strategic customers,  targeted at water disinfection in point-of-use and point-of-entry  applications. The product will be made available to selected key customers for  a controlled market entry. “The current industry bottleneck with the challenging supply of  chips has been a key concern for CrayoNano,” says CEO Jo Uthus. “We have now  proactively resolved the situation and continue our efforts on disrupting the  UV-C LED market, where we see  growing demand for our solutions.” The initial manufacturing volume will at first utilize commodity,  industry standard chip technology and components combined CrayoNano’s optimized  custom packaging and assembly technology. This is in preparation for the  integration of CrayoNano’s nanowire chip architecture through testing and validating  the supply-chain and driving a controlled market entry to enable a quality and  reliability-focused UV-C LED product series. Following market entry and customer qualifications, CrayoNano aims  to implement its proprietary nanowire and hybrid materials chip architecture  into the same optimized package using the same assembly and test processes,  positioning it for a leading cost-performance position in the market, it  reckons. The first order of pilot products will be delivered to customers  in first-half 2022. The pilot order will be used by customers to benchmark and  qualify the product prior to placing orders. The first volume shipment is  planned for availability to selected customers in third-quarter 2022. Due to the substantial lack of UV-C LED  products in the market, CrayoNano has obtained signed letters of intent (LOI)  from what it calls industry-influencing OEMs and system integrators (tier-1 and  tier-2). “With our supply-chain partners we are now in a position to execute a  ramp-up and commercialization of our nanowire and UV-C LED technology according to our business plan,” says Uthus.  “Through this, CrayoNano will contribute to solving the lack of supply in the  UV-C LED market.” 