Digi-Key to distribute EPC Space’s rad-hard GaN power devices for high-rel and aerospace applications EPC Space LLC of Haverhill, MA, USA says that Digi-Key Electronics will be a  global distributor for its line of radiation-hardened (rad-hard) gallium nitride-on-silicon (GaN-on-Si)  transistors and ICs, packaged, tested and qualified for satellite and  high-reliability applications. Spanning a range of 40V to 300V, EPC Space  offers a family of rad-hard enhancement-mode power transistors that are said to  demonstrate significant performance advantages over competing silicon-based  rad-hard power MOSFETs. The firm  says that its technology produces GaN devices that are smaller, have lower  resistance, and have many times superior switching performance compared with  silicon solutions. Digi-Key will also distribute EPC Space’s  family of rad-hard enhancement-mode GaN drivers and power stages. Rad-hard GaN drivers are optimized to drive rad-hard  GaN transistors in critical space-borne systems. Rad-hard power stages integrate a high-speed gate drive circuit with power switches to provide a monolithic complete  power stage in a tiny footprint for  smaller, lower-weight systems. The drivers and power stages  product line includes ultra-fast,  low-side eGaN drivers, ultra-fast, dual low-side eGaN drivers, and half-bridge  drivers with integrated eGaN power switches. Critical space-borne applications that benefit from the  performance improvements that the devices offer include power supplies for satellites and mission  equipment, light detection and ranging (LiDAR) for robotics and autonomous  navigation and rendezvous docking, motor drives  for robotics and instrumentation, and ion thrusters  for satellite orientation and positioning as well as interplanetary propulsion  of low-mass robotic vehicles. “The addition of EPC Space’s rad-hard GaN-based power management products completes the entire  EPC’s product portfolio through Digi-Key and brings intriguing next-generation  breakthrough benefits to existing silicon-based solutions,” comments David  Stein, VP of global supplier management for Digi-Key. “Digi-Key has the fastest global logistics and the most efficient  supply chain to service customers  from early engineering through volume production,” comments EPC Space’s CEO Bel Lazar. “Digi-Key’s  world-class distribution capabilities will translate into fast and easy service  to our global customers who want to access the entire line of EPC’s GaN power device products to replace their  less-efficient, more costly silicon solutions.” 