OIF launches CEI-224G framework project white paper for next-gen data-rate systems As the industry looks forward to higher data rates and  increased throughput for the next generation of systems based on 224Gbps per  lane, new specifications and technologies will be required. The Optical Internetworking Forum (OIF) has  announced a framework document representing its efforts to identify the  hardware interconnection application spaces where the communications and  computer industries could benefit from interconnection definitions or  Implementation Agreements (IA). The CEI-224G framework project has resulted in a white paper  summarizing the consensus findings and guidance for new OIF project starts for  future CEI clauses addressing specific 224Gbps reaches and architectures.  Further, it identifies key technical challenges for next-generation systems,  defines electrical interconnection applications, and discusses some of the  interoperability test challenges. This provides the OIF and other industry  standards bodies with a common language and understanding of the development  projects required for next-generation data-rate systems. It also establishes  baseline materials that will enable 1.6/3.2Tbps-rate architectures and  lower-cost, lower-complexity 800Gbps and 400Gbps architectures. “As demonstrated in the past, most recently at 112Gbps, OIF plays  a key role in driving industry activity to identify and develop critical  technical solutions that will enable next-generation data rates to be  cost-effectively deployed in future equipment and networks,” says OIF president’s  Cathy Liu of Broadcom Inc. Service providers, network customers and data-center operators  have communicated that higher data rates like 224Gbps are required for  client- and line-side links to support higher volumes of traffic on the core  and backbone networks. These next-generation data rates need to be implemented  while also addressing power consumption, density, performance, reach and cost  challenges. “224Gbps is going to bring many difficult challenges for the  industry to address to achieve practical implementations in an interoperable  way,” says OIF’s VP of marketing Nathan Tracy of TE Connectivity. “This  framework project and its resultant white paper align OIF members and  industry on many of the key hurdles,” he adds. “Overcoming obstacles can be  achieved by having consensus amongst a broad cross-section of component,  subsystem and system suppliers to leverage new technologies that drive  signaling, architecture and integration developments.” 