Seoul Viosys’ Violeds sterilizes Omicron variant Ultraviolet LED product maker Seoul  Viosys Co Ltd (a subsidiary of South Korean LED maker Seoul  Semiconductor Co Ltd) has announced experimental results confirming that its Violeds  technology sterilizes 99.99% of Omicron Variant  (SARS-CoV-2 Variant: B.1.1529) in 1 second. Seoul Viosys conducted the Omicron sterilization test at the  Virology Research Institute of Korea University College of Medicine, and it was  confirmed that the Omicron virus exposed to the Violeds LED was sterilized  99.99% in only one second. Seoul Viosys has been conducting sterilization experiments using  its Violeds technology since 2019. Last July, in a joint experiment with a  research team at Korea University, it was confirmed that Violeds sterilized  (inactivated) the Delta variant  (SARS-CoV-2: B.1.617.2) 99.3% in 1 second.  Seoul Viosys’ bio research team released  research data that the air-purifying sterilizer with Violeds technology applied  could lower the risk of airborne infection by one-thirtieth. In November, Seoul Viosys provided free air-purifying  sterilizers to 300 small business stores that have been barely managing to earn  their living during the COVID-19 pandemic, and no confirmed cases have been  found in any of the stores where the air-purifying sterilizers are installed,  according to a survey of the store owners. In addition, at January’s Consumer Electronics Show (CES 2022) in Las Vegas, portable air purifiers (model VAC) with Violeds  technology were installed in conference halls, restaurants and vehicles, and no  confirmed cases occurred among Seoul Viosys’  executives and employees. Violeds technology prevents the growth of viruses and bacteria by  using ultraviolet LEDs, which have sterilizing and deodorizing power. In  addition to air purifiers and air conditioners, the technology can also be  applied to the air-conditioning systems of buildings and automobiles, reducing  the possibility of infection caused by airborne droplets. “Given the results of this Omicron test, we expect that COVID-19  variants that have been continuously emerging, such as Deltacron, can be  completely sterilized using Violeds products,” says a Seoul Viosys official. “We will continue to  apply Violeds technology to various products to create an environment where  people can breathe clean and safe air at home as well as restaurants,  transportation facilities, and multi-use facilities,” he adds. “Violeds is an innovative  sterilization technology that we have developed and started mass-production for  the first time in the world, and no one can produce it without permission to  use the patents of Seoul Viosys, its  affiliate Sensor Electronics Technology Inc  (SETi) in the USA, and NS (Nitride Semiconductor),  a strategic partner in Japan.” 