Infineon launches XHP 2 CoolSiC power module for streetcars Infineon Technologies AG of Munich, Germany is launching power semiconductors with CoolSiC MOSFET and .XT technology in  the XHP 2 package, tailored  specifically to the requirements of rail services. The XHP 2 power module  from Infineon has already been proven in a joint field test conducted by Siemens Mobility and Stadtwerke München (SWM). An Avenio streetcar in Munich  was equipped with these power modules and tested in passenger service for a  year, covering around 65,000km. Siemens Mobility concluded that this use of  power semiconductors based on silicon carbide  (SiC) had made it possible to reduce the energy consumption of streetcars by  10%. At the same time, it was also possible to significantly reduce engine  noise during operation. “Innovative semiconductor solutions for rail technology are an  important driver for green mobility. The successful field test with streetcars in Munich demonstrates  the benefits of SiC technology for manufacturers, rail operators and residents,” says Dr Peter Wawer, president of Infineon’s Industrial Power Control Division. The tests were carried  out under the European development and research project PINTA and are part of  the extensive European research and innovation initiative Shift2Rail (a joint undertaking under grant agreement no. 826054 that has received support from the  European Union’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation program), which aims to  create a sustainable European rail system through targeted investments. Implementing SiC in power modules  for traction propulsion systems can also pose major challenges: In addition to  an efficient and very robust SiC chip, packages that allow high switching speeds are required, as well as  interconnection technologies that enable a long service life. These are precisely the features offered by  Infineon's power module, it is  claimed: Since trains accelerate and decelerate frequently, the power cycles for semiconductors in rail  applications are very demanding. The constant temperature fluctuations stress  the interconnection technology. Infineon’s .XT technology provides a solution  to this challenge. The technology significantly improves the lifetime during power cycles and has been used for years in  similarly challenging applications such as wind turbines. In Infineon’s XHP 2  power module, CoolSiC MOSFET chips enable low conversion losses while maintaining high reliability. They are the  basis for increased energy efficiency  and are already used today in many applications like photovoltaic systems. The  XHP 2 package features low stray inductance, a symmetrical and scalable  design, and high current capacity.  As a result, the package is suitable for silicon carbide. Thus, in addition to the established application areas of  photovoltaics and charging infrastructure for electric vehicles (EVs), silicon carbide  MOSFETs now also provide significantly more energy efficiency  in the area of rail-bound vehicles. On 31 March, Infineon  is hosting the ‘Industrial Wide-Bandgap Developer Forum’ for design and  development engineers as a livestream. During the event, Stefan Schönewolf of  Siemens Mobility GmbH will talk  about SiC in rail vehicles. 