Seoul Viosys seeks to enjoin sales of infringing UV LED products in Europe Ultraviolet LED product maker Seoul Viosys Co Ltd (a subsidiary  of South Korean LED maker Seoul Semiconductor Co Ltd) says that it has filed a patent  infringement lawsuit with the Hague District Court  in the Netherlands, seeking to enjoin UV LED  products in European countries. The litigation arose from an earlier patent lawsuit filed by Seoul Viosys against FNAC Darty Group, a large European retailer,  in France last September, when the Judicial Court of Paris ordered the search  and seizure of evidence of suspected infringement. From that, Seoul Viosys learned that accused UV LED products are being imported and  distributed from the Netherlands. To prevent the further distribution of  infringing products across European countries, Seoul Viosys has filed a patent infringement lawsuit against  Netherlands-based trading company FTHMM International B.V. in the Hague District Court  of the Netherlands, seeking a preliminary injunction against the allegedly  infringing UV LED products. Seoul Viosys and US-based UV LED  firm SETi claim to have co-developed and mass-produced the first UV LED that emits UV light with optical  semiconductor technology. Seoul Viosys  now claims to be the top producer of UV LEDs.  As the market has expanded, however, so has the number of sales of infringing  products, the firm says. It has hence expanded its enforcement and taken legal  action to protect its intellectual property  in South Korea, Japan, the USA and Europe. Seoul Viosys  has won all 30 cases that it has brought over the last three years in six different countries,  including its pursuit of a permanent injunction against the sales of infringing  products in one of these cases. “Seoul’s UV LEDs will  continue to lead the world in products for clean air and water, as well as  sterilizing against dangerous contaminants like coronavirus,” reckons Seoul Viosys’ CEO Youngjoo Lee. “Seoul has not  only increased the capacity of such products by five times, it has done so  while producing products at significantly lower prices,” he adds. “Seoul Viosys, SETi and Nitride Semiconductors Co Ltd.,  its strategic partner in Japan, have developed, owned and mass produced this  technology for many years. No one else can develop optical semiconductor UV LED technology without using our  fundamental patents,” he claims. “When intellectual property is respected, the market will provide fair  opportunities to all, including young entrepreneurs and small- to medium-sized  enterprises around the world.” 