Transphorm’s quarterly revenue up 129% year-on-year For its fiscal third-quarter  2022 (ended 31 December 2021), Transphorm Inc of Goleta, near Santa Barbara, CA, USA — which  designs and manufactures JEDEC- and AEC-Q101-qualified gallium nitride (GaN) field-effect transistors (FETs) for high-voltage power conversion applications — has reported revenue of $4.6m, up 129%  on $2m a year ago. This is down from  $11.3m last quarter, but that included $8m of licensing revenue related to a  development project with a manufacturing partner. Excluding this  licensing revenue, revenue rose by 39% from $3.3m last quarter, reflecting record  product sales of $3.6m (up sequentially for an eighth consecutive quarter, and  up 220% year-on-year). The growth in product sales is due to ramping shipments  of GaN devices for a broad range of power conversion  applications (including shipping more than 1 million SuperGaN Gen IV FETs for 45-300W  power adapter and fast-charger applications in December). “As overall demand  for GaN solutions is accelerating, our sales pipeline continues to expand  rapidly, driven by our products’ unique, easy-to-interface GaN architecture,  our world-leading GaN portfolio with a broad range of power capabilities  (45W–5kW already powering our customers’ systems today, scalable to 100kW plus  in the future), and our products’ established real-world performance and  reliability,” says president & co-founder Primit Parikh. Highlights during the quarter included increasing total design-ins for power adapters and fast chargers to over 50  (with over 20 in production) and total design-ins for higher power (300W–4kW) to  over 30 (with over 20 in production). “Our emphasis going  forward is to capitalize on this momentum, grow our ecosystem of solution  partners, and expand our manufacturing capacity, with a strong focus on  providing a total supply chain solution to customers,” says Parikh. On a non-GAAP basis,  operating expenses were $4.4m, roughly level with $4.45m last quarter but up  20% on $3.7m a year ago, due primarily to an expansion in the sales and  applications team to support increased revenue together with one-off compliance  costs tied to a year of change. Net loss was $4.3m  ($0.09 per share), compared with net income of $3.6m ($0.09 per share) last  quarter but a cut in net loss from $4.7m ($0.13 per share) a year ago. In December,  Transphorm closed a $12.9m non-brokered private placement of common stock at $7.71 per  share, bringing the total amount of equity financings closed during the quarter  to more than $45m. Cash and equivalents were hence boosted from $2.5m to $41m. “Over the past two  quarters we have completed multiple equity financings from a combination of  strategic and institutional investors, resulting in a significant increase in  both the company’s cash position and stockholders’ equity at quarter end,” notes chief  financial officer Cameron McAulay. “This additional capital provides expanded  operational flexibility in support of our future anticipated growth, and we  believe the company’s strengthened balance sheet satisfies all  of the financial qualification requirements for uplisting to the NASDAQ. As  such, we expect and look forward to providing a definitive update on this  important milestone in the near future,” he adds. 