II-VI ships 400G ZR+ QSFP-DD-DCO transceivers to Windstream Engineered materials and optoelectronic component  maker II-VI Inc of Saxonburg, PA, USA has shipped its 400G ZR+  QSFP-DD-DCO transceivers – claimed to be the first with 0dBm output power – to  Windstream Wholesale for field qualification. In October, II-VI and Windstream announced their partnership to  fast-track the development of high-output-power 400G transceiver technology  that enables Windstream to deploy greatly simplified network architectures.  II-VI’s 400G transceivers are claimed to be the first digital coherent optics  with the highest optical output power of 0dBm that can plug directly into  QSFP-DD transceiver slots on IP routers. Windstream can leverage this  technology to optically connect routers directly to access, metro and regional  DWDM transport networks without additional intermediary interfaces, eliminating  an entire layer of optical equipment and thereby significantly reducing both  capital and operational expenditures. “We’re excited to begin qualification with Windstream ahead of our  original schedule,” says Matthias Berger, VP, coherent technology, II-VI Inc.  “This 400G transceiver is based on our advanced and proprietary indium phosphide (InP) technology, which is  uniquely suited to achieve high output power  levels of 0dBm while remaining within the power consumption  requirements of QSFP-DD,” he adds. “This 400G transceiver is truly a game-changing technology that  will make IP-over-DWDM a reality on Windstream’s ICON network,” comments Windstream’s  chief network officer Buddy Bayer.  “II-VI moved at an accelerated pace to deliver these transceivers, putting us  on track to expand 400G wavelength services to large wholesale and hyperscale  customers as early as the second half of calendar year  2022. Our ‘fast and flexible’ approach is demonstrated once again through the  right strategic partners.” Windstream’s Intelligent Converged Optical Network (ICON) provides  open and disaggregated networking infrastructure, enabling wholesale and  enterprise technology customers to select unique custom routes, maintain  operational insights with Windstream’s Network Intelligence  functions, and place their networks closer to the edge to better serve  end-users. II-VI’s 400G ZR+  QSFP-DD-DCO transceiver was honored as a Lightwave Innovation Reviews High Score  Recipient in the category ‘Optical Transceivers and Transponders’. This 400G  transceiver is built on II-VI’s IC-TROSA 64Gbaud coherent optical subassembly,  which features a high-efficiency InP modulator and receiver combined with a  built-in tunable laser that delivers what is claimed to be best-in-class  transmission performance and high optical output power and achieves the  transmitter in-band and out-of-band optical signal-to-noise ratio (OSNR)  requirements established by the OpenROADM standard. II-VI is participating on a panel at a webinar ‘Deploying IP over DWDM  with 400 ZR+’, hosted by Cignal AI on 24 February  (11am US Eastern Time). 