Qorvo’s December quarter exceeds the mid-point of guidance for revenue, gross margin and EPS For fiscal third-quarter 2022 (ended 1 January),  Qorvo Inc of Greensboro, NC, USA  (which provides core technologies and RF solutions for mobile, infrastructure  and defense applications) has reported revenue of $1114m, down 11.2% on last  quarter’s record of $1255.2m but up 1.7% on  $1094.8m a year ago, and $9m above the midpoint of $1090-1120m guidance. “We are in the midst of the most disruptive supply chain effects  in the past two years,” says chief financial officer Mark Murphy, although “supply chain  effects did moderate in the quarter,” he adds. “Sustained year-over-year revenue growth was supported by  multi-year secular growth drivers in 5G, IoT connectivity, defense and power,”  notes president & CEO Bob Bruggeworth. “Demand was broad-based across  markets, and included multiple new product categories, including 5G transmit  diversity, ultra-wideband Wi-Fi 6E and 7 and power management and  other power solutions.” Mobile  Products revenue was $848m, down from $996m last quarter but up from $826m a  year ago, and above the expected $830m, due to the continued growth of inherently  higher-content 5G smartphones, plus gaining content in both flagship and  mass-market 5G devices. “The multi-year migration of 5G continues to drive RF  content and integration trends,” said Bruggeworth last quarter. “The RF content  increase in mass-market phones is now greater on a percent basis than in  flagship devices.” Infrastructure & Defense Products (IDP) revenue was $266m, down  on $269m a year ago (and below the expected $275m) but up from $260m last quarter.  Sequential growth is broad-based across markets, with the exception being Wi-Fi  (which was still being impacted by the ongoing shortages of chipsets). Infrastructure  and programmable power management grew not only sequentially but also  year-on-year. “In the defense supply chain, there is still some COVID-related  disruption,” notes Murphy, “but it did improve, as we expected.” On a non-GAAP basis, gross margin was 52.6%, down on 54.4% a year  ago. However, despite the more challenging supply/demand environment than  expected, this was still the fifth consecutive quarter above 52%, up from 52.4%  last quarter and above the midpoint of the 52-52.5% guidance range, due to a better-than-expected  product mix and yields. Operating expenses were $214.2m (19.2% of revenue), down from  $222.1m last quarter (and below the expected $224m) due to lower incentive  compensation and the timing of development programs. However, this is up on  $194.2m a year ago, due to new product and technology investments (higher  investments in core technologies and expanding capabilities in new businesses).  This includes OpEx from power device maker United Silicon Carbide (United SiC)  of Princeton, NJ, USA (acquired in early November), partially offset by lower  incentive compensation. Operating  income was $372m (33.4% of revenue, a fifth consecutive quarter of operating  margin over 33%), down on $435.4m (34.7% margin) last quarter and $401.4m (36.7%  margin) a year ago. Net income was $330.4m ($2.98 per diluted share), down from the  record $384.5m ($3.42 per diluted share) last quarter and $356.7m ($3.08 per  diluted share) a year ago, but exceeding the $2.75 earnings per share  guidance. “Qorvo outperformed the midpoint of our guidance in the December quarter  on revenue, gross margin and EPS,” notes Bruggeworth. Cash flow from operations was $117m. This was less than half of last quarter’s $244.8m. However, this reflects a  considerable payment associated with a long-term supply agreement. “We believe  supply agreements allow us to advance our differentiated technology position  and simplify our long-term planning,” says Murphy. “Qorvo is building  longer-term and more collaborative partnerships to provide our customers supply  assurance and to address their product and technology needs.” Also, Qorvo’s inventory increased to over $700m (about 115 days of  inventory), in line with the forecast, due to needing to support expected  growth (i.e. content gains in both flagship and mass-tier smartphones, as well  as increases in IDP), as well as a realignment of demand among OEMs in China. “Given  our focus on cash flow and capital returns and risk management, it’s certainly  higher than we want it to be and higher than it’s run over the past 1.5 years  or so,” says Murphy. “But we’re working through those. We have a plan that  rolls off over the next few quarters, and we expect more normal turns as we  move through the year.” Capital expenditure (CapEx) was $50.5m (below the projected $70m).  “It remains concentrated in core areas such as BAW [bulk acoustic wave]  and gallium arsenide (GaAs), where we enjoyed a differentiated position  and see continued growth,” notes Murphy. Free cash flow was hence $66.5m, down from $197.5m last quarter. During the quarter, Qorvo repurchased $302m of shares. “We  continue to repurchase shares based on our long-term outlook, low leverage, and  other factors,” says Murphy. In December, Qorvo issued its first investment grade note. The  proceeds from this $500m three-year note were used in part to retire the firm’s  $195m term loan. As of the end-December, Qorvo had $2047m of debt and $988.5m of  cash and cash equivalents. Net debt to EBITDA rose to more than 0.5 turns. “Qorvo is operating well and expanding the markets we serve while  investing to extend product and technology leadership across our portfolio,”  says Bruggeworth. In Mobile, Qorvo ramped shipments during the quarter to a Korea-based  smartphone OEM in support of flagship and mass-market smartphone launches. It  also expanded customer sampling of highly integrated main path and  secondary transmit solutions for Android 5G smartphones (increasing  content as these architectures are adopted more broadly). In ultra-wideband, Qorvo achieved what it describes as an  important strategic milestone, supplying its first complete ultra-wideband  solution for an Android smartphone (including a UWB transceiver and a software stack  compatible with other Android devices). “This speaks to the  strength of our core technology and highlights the opportunity across the  Android ecosystem,” says Bruggeworth. For industrial and enterprise applications,  Qorvo introduced a fully integrated module combining its ultra-wideband chipset  with Nordic’s Bluetooth Low Energy solution to address a wide  range of applications. In Wi-Fi, design activity continues to be robust. Qorvo secured  new Wi-Fi 7 chip-on-board reference design engagements for  mobile applications and began customer sampling of Wi-Fi 7  front-end modules (FEMs). For home and enterprise applications, the firm  ramped Wi-Fi 6E FEMs for mesh networks and released 5GHz iFEMs with BAW  filtering for tri-band Wi-Fi mesh networks. In cellular infrastructure, Qorvo was selected by a base-station  OEM to supply 3.4-3.8GHz 8W GaN power amplifier modules for  massive MIMO 5G deployments in Europe. “We see infrastructure market  strengthening in 2022 worldwide, with significant growth in the rest of the  world, excluding China,” notes Bruggeworth. In automotive, Qorvo was selected to provide a cellular FEM for  V2X connectivity for a leading Europe-based automotive OEM. In power, Qorvo secured design wins to supply silicon carbide  for on-board chargers (OBCs) and DC-to-DC converters in support of leading  automotive OEMs in Europe and in Asia. Also, sales of power management  integrated circuits (PMICs) for video processors and solid-state drives were  strong, as were sales of motor control solutions for  battery-powered tools. “To expand our power franchise, we are combining our  power management and silicon carbide technologies to deliver superior  levels of power efficiency and high-power applications,” notes Bruggeworth.  “Our first products are for the defense industry, and we are broadening the  portfolio to serve additional markets, including infrastructure and automotive,”  he adds. “The integration of United Silicon Carbide is proceeding well and  enhancing our opportunities in higher-voltage applications that demand maximum  power efficiency. These include electric vehicles (EVs), charging  stations and renewable energy systems.” Finally, in bio applications, Qorvo was awarded a $4.1m follow-on  contract with the US National Institutes for Health (NIH) Rapid Acceleration of Diagnostics (RADx)  initiative supporting a COVID/flu combo assay and a COVID antigen pooling  application. The firm also signed a channel partnership agreement for  distribution of its Omnia diagnostic test platform in the USA and submitted a CLIA (Clinical Laboratory  Improvement Amendments) waiver application to the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA)  to expand deployment in point-of-care settings. “In both mobile and IDP, Qorvo is capturing diverse opportunities  supported by multi-year secular growth drivers in 5G, IoT connectivity, defense  and power,” summarizes Bruggeworth. Reflecting reduced disruption in the supply chain, the timing  of high-volume smartphone launches, content gains and stronger IDP volumes, for  fiscal fourth-quarter 2022 (to end-March) Qorvo expects revenue to grow more  strongly than usual to $1.135-1.165bn, up 3% sequentially and 7% year-on-year. Mobile  Products should be flat sequentially but up about 5% year-on-year due to  flagship and mass-tier phone launches and content gains and a more stable  supply-demand situation. IDP should return to year-on-year growth, with  broad-based demand supporting revenues over $300m. “In our IDP business, some  of the silicon supply in our connectivity business there, along with some of  our power management systems business, we still see tightness,” notes Bruggeworth.  “We do expect things to improve through the quarter and throughout the year.” Gross margin should be about 52%. Operating expenses are expected  to rise to about $232m due to increased investment in core technologies and new  capabilities as well as early-calendar-year payroll effects. Diluted earnings  per share should fall slightly to $2.94. 
  For full-year fiscal 2022, year-on-year revenue growth should  exceed 15%. Gross margin is expected to about 30 basis points higher than  fiscal 2021 (which had exceeded 52%). With OpEx cut from nearly 20% of revenue  to just over 19%, operating margin is expected to rise to over 33% and earnings  per share should grow by 25% to $12.18. Murphy expects full-year free  cash flow to still end up near $900m (and to grow next year). “We expect the supply environment to continue to improve through  this quarter and the calendar year,” says Murphy. CapEx is projected to be about $55m in the March quarter, “as we  manage spend to intersect demand and support long-term supply agreements with  multiple customers,” says Murphy. “We are still supply constrained in some areas  and forecast to remain so beyond our fiscal year-end. We continue to expand BAW  and GaAs capacity along with some assembly and test to support growth.” “Looking beyond this fiscal year, Qorvo is well-positioned to  serve secular growth trends in connectivity and power and to deliver growth in  earnings and free cash flow,” reckons Murphy. “We expect solid  growth in our advanced cellular products for smartphones as 5G mix grows, RF  complexity increases and content expands. In broader connectivity solutions, we  expect strong double-digit growth as connected devices increase and use-cases  proliferate [while WiFi business should pick up in fiscal 2023]. Finally, we  expect infrastructure, defense and power markets to support double-digit growth  as 5G build-outs pick up outside of China, defense spend mixes to  higher-performance electronics, and requirements increase for power semis  to support electrification trends,” he concludes. 