Report details growth in compound semiconductor jobs and exports in Wales A new report  published by the Welsh Economy Research Unit at Cardiff University focuses  on the contribution to the economy by the Wales-based  compound semiconductor cluster CSconnected during 2021. As in 2020, and  despite a complex economic backdrop dominated by the COVID pandemic and Brexit,  the compound semiconductor sector as a whole out-performed the wider  economy in a number of key areas, including job growth and exports. Exports from the  sector bucked the overall trend that saw the value of Welsh exports tumble by  about 25% over the three years to first-quarter 2021. Employment within  the sector grew by about 14% year-on-year in 2021 to around 1600 full-time  employees, accounting for over 10% of Wales’ total employment in electrical and  electronic engineering. The report also  identified that average gross pay across the sector was about 60% higher than  the overall average pay in Wales. Expansion plans  already announced across the industry provide a strong indication that growth  in employment is expected to accelerate, with skills shortages in some parts of  the compound semiconductor community becoming more acute. The Welsh  technology sector has out-performed the overall UK technology output over the  last three years. The report suggests that that the relatively strong  performance of the compound semiconductor cluster in the 2019-2021 period  reinforced this trend in the Welsh economy, in spite of poor overall trading  conditions in much of Welsh manufacturing. In terms of  direct value to the Welsh economy, it is estimated that the sector directly  contributed about £194m of gross value added (GVA), representing around  1.7% of Welsh manufacturing GVA and 15.4% of GVA in the more tightly defined  electronic and engineering sector. Taking into  account the cluster’s purchasing of regional goods and services, and its  payment of wage incomes, it indirectly supports a further £83m of GVA, so that  the cluster overall supports directly and indirectly an estimated £277m of  Welsh GVA. “The Welsh compound semiconductor cluster is the first of its  kind in the world. The region should be proud to be home to a robust and  innovative technology sector that is widely recognized globally and enables a  wide portfolio of applications from resilient communications to advanced  healthcare technologies and energy-efficient devices that will help achieve  net-zero targets,” says CSconnected’s director Chris Meadows. “The UKRI [UK Research and  Innovation] Strength in Places program has enabled the CSconnected community to accelerate its  global influence, placing Wales at the center of new and emerging technologies  that will change the way we live, work and spend our leisure time over the  coming decades,” he adds. “The robust growth of the compound semiconductor community continues to make a  significant contribution to the Welsh economy and demonstrates resilience and  sustainability that will be positive for the region’s long-term economic  prospects,” comments professor Max  Munday, one of the report authors (along with Dr Annette Roberts  and professor Robert Huggins). “The  growing ecosystem embraces the private sector firms, academic institutions and government agencies,” he adds.  “The UKRI Strength in Places support provides a great springboard  for the region to be at the centre of the next technology revolution,  increasing its contribution to the Welsh economy.” In 2020,  CSconnected received government funding provided through UK Research and Innovation’s  flagship Strength in Places Fund (SIPF). The 55-month CSconnected  SIPF project has a total value of £43.74m, supported by £25.44m of UKRI funds. 