Lumentum’s revenue falls 6.7% year-on-year to $447m For its fiscal  second-quarter 2022 (ended 1 January), Lumentum Holdings Inc  of San Jose, CA, USA (which designs and makes photonics products for  optical networks and lasers for industrial and consumer markets) has reported  revenue of $446.7m, down by 6.7% $478.8m a year ago and by 0.4% on $448.4m last quarter. Demand was strong across all major product  lines, but Lumentum was supply  constrained across many of them. “Accelerating telecom and datacom market  demand is coming at a time when the supply environment is very dynamic and  challenging,” says president & CEO Alan Lowe. “Supply had been improving  heading into and throughout the bulk of the second quarter. However, late in  the quarter, the latest pandemic surge once again negatively impacted supply.  This contributed to a $50m gap between the supply of material and customer  demand,” he adds. Despite this, results  were still above the midpoint of guidance on all metrics (e.g. $435-455m for revenue). Commercial Lasers segment  revenue was $49.3m (11% of total revenue), up 16.3% on $42.4m last quarter and  66% on $29.7m a year ago. Strength  in lasers for manufacturing of semiconductor and consumer electronics as well  as life science applications  complemented the strength in fiber lasers  for macro material processing. “Demand for our commercial lasers has never  been stronger as industrial factories and semiconductor fabs expand and upgrade  their capability,” says Lowe. Optical Communications  segment revenue was $397.4m (89% of total revenue), down 2.1% on $406m last  quarter and 11.5% on $449.1m a year ago. The sequential drop was due to the expected 3D sensing seasonality in Industrial & Consumer  business (down from $190m to $130.3m). This was partially offset by Telecom &  Datacom revenue, which was still down on $286.2m a year ago but rebounded  sharply from $216m last quarter to $267.1m due to strong growth in both Telecoms  (with exceptional strength in nearly every product line)  and Datacoms (with record revenue from externally  modulated lasers (EMLs) – up 45% year-on-year by – serving high-speed  cloud data-center applications). “Revenue from high-speed 400G-and-above  coherent components and modules nearly doubled quarter on quarter. As  5G, 4K streaming, and network access  requirements increase, the speed at the edge of the network must also increase  and the core of the network must upgrade to higher speeds as well,” says Lowe.  Transceivers serving edge applications were up more than 60% quarter on quarter  and more than 130% year on year. Pump laser  sales grew more than 30% sequentially to a new all-time high. “Next-generation customer systems are just  hitting an inflection point as new multi-year network deployments are just  starting to ramp,” says Lowe. “Our cloud  and networking customers are entering a multi-year hardware upgrade cycle and  rely on our leading-edge photonics as their fundamental enabling technology,” he  adds. “We are broadening the applications of our 3D sensing lasers beyond mobile handsets into automotive  driver-assistance designs, and AR/VR [augmented reality/virtual reality]  applications.” On a non-GAAP basis,  gross margin was 51%, down from 55% last quarter and 53.4% a year ago. In  particular, Optical Communications segment gross margin was 50.8%, down on  55.6% last quarter and 53.8% a year ago, due primarily to the change in product  mix. Commercial Laser segment gross margin has risen further, from 47.5% a year  ago and 49.1% last quarter to 53.1%, due to higher volumes. Operating expenses were  $86.4m (19.3% of revenue), cut slightly from $87.8m (19.6% of revenue) last  quarter. Operating income has fallen  further, from $169.9m (operating margin of 35.5% of revenue) a year ago and  $158.9m (35.4% margin) last quarter to $141.6m (31.7% margin, although this is  towards the top end of the 30-32% guidance range). Likewise, net income has  fallen further, from $145.4m ($1.85 per diluted share) a year ago and $135.1m  ($1.79 per diluted share) last quarter to $120.2m ($1.60 per diluted share,  towards the top end of the $1.47-1.64 guidance range). Cash generated from  operations was $206.5m. During the quarter, Lumentum used $29.9m to repurchase  330,000 shares of its common stock. (Since the two-year,  $700m share buyback program was approved by the board of directors in May  2021, the firm has repurchased 4.5 million shares for a total $362.6m.) Overall, total cash,  cash equivalents and short-term investments rose  by $137.8m during the quarter, from $1884.6m to $2022.4m. “Industry-wide supply  shortages [of semiconductors and other materials] have worsened with  the recent surge in COVID-19 [in January],” says Lowe. “We  expect shipments of products that rely on third-party supplied semiconductors  will be the primary driver of supply constraints. The demand from our customers  has also recently accelerated… This will increase the gap between supply and  demand, resulting in more than a $65m impact to our projected revenue in Q3. We  expect telecom and datacom revenue to be modestly down quarter on quarter”. Industrial  & Consumer revenue will also be down sequentially, due primarily to normal  consumer product seasonality. Hence, for fiscal third-quarter 2022 (to  end-March), Lumentum’s revenue should fall to $375-405m. This is  despite Commercial Lasers growing again sequentially (driven by growth in  new products and the overall market). Operating  margin is expected to fall to  24-26%, and diluted earnings per share should drop to $1.01-1.19. “Shortages come at a  time when customer demand is accelerating for our differentiated communications  products, which are essential to multi-year expansions in next-generation  optical network capacity that are just beginning to be deployed,” says Lowe. “Book-to-bill  for telecom products exceeded one for the quarter, and we have more than two  quarters of datacom backlog already booked,” he adds. “We continue to work diligently with our  suppliers and on alternative sources of supply to alleviate shortages, and  expect [fiscal] fourth-quarter revenue to be up from that of the third quarter  and supply shortages to improve by the second half of this calendar year,” says  Lowe. “Looking beyond these near-term supply challenges, I am highly optimistic  about our outlook,” he adds. “Elevated  pump [laser] shipments frequently have been a leading indicator of future  telecom demand. Another leading indicator of telecom demand is optical fiber deployments for networks. Significant  investments in fiber infrastructure are underway as operators expand capacity,  capability, and access.” “We  expect to bring additional EML manufacturing capacity online in March, which  will help us ramp our datacom shipments through this calendar year to fulfill  strong customer demand of our differentiated products,” says Lowe. EML revenue  should rise by 10% in the March quarter, then grow more significantly in the  June quarter. “These points, along with our design wins  and long-term share and supply agreements with market-leading customers, gives  us confidence that we have a strong long-term outlook in Telecom & Datacom,”  says Lowe. “An important element of Lumentum’s 3D  sensing and LiDAR product strategy is to deploy our platforms into new markets  and applications. We recently announced two new automotive customer wins,”  notes Lowe. “The first was a partnership with Hesai, who is making all  solid-state LiDAR modules for ADAS applications, leveraging our differentiated  high-power multi-junction VCSEL arrays. Also, we have begun mass production of  a VCSEL solution with Stanley Electric used for in-cabin driver and occupant  monitoring,” he adds. “These announcements complement other design wins and  opportunities in our funnel. A broad range of customers are increasingly  relying on our enabling technology for their critical LiDAR and in-cabin  monitoring systems. We have strong customer traction in augmented- and  virtual-reality opportunities that we expect will come to market in the next  few years. Most AR/VR applications will employ multiple lasers. The use-cases  for these lasers include eye tracking, hand tracking or  gesture recognition, and world-facing imaging applications. Customers in  this space value our differentiated products as well as our unparalleled  experience, quality and reliability track record, and scale in the  industry as targeting high-volume and high-performance applications.” Also, Lumentum expects Commercial Lasers  quarterly revenue to surpass its previous record as the business grows over the  coming year. “Market inflections  beneficial to us in all of our addressable markets will drive double-digit  revenue growth in fiscal 2023 and beyond, not including the pending acquisition  of NeoPhotonics [announced in November]” believes Lowe. “The combination gives us a more complete  product and technology portfolio. This enables our customers to address their  next-generation cloud and networking speeds and scalability requirements,” says  Lowe regarding NeoPhotonics. “We have made excellent progress with our  integration planning and are on track with the previously announced closed time  line,” he adds. “Two key closing conditions are now satisfied. On 21 January,  we announced that we have received US antitrust clearance. Just two days ago,  NeoPhotonics shareholders approved the transaction in a special meeting of  their stockholders. We are working diligently with anti-trust authorities in  China and our expectations of closing the transaction in the second half of  calendar 2022 remain unchanged.” 