II-VI licenses single-crystal diamond technology from Element Six Engineered materials and  optoelectronic component maker II-VI Inc of Saxonburg, PA, USA and  synthetic diamond materials firm Element Six of Oxford, UK (E6, part of the De Beers Group) have announced a strategic  collaboration that will expand II-VI’s diamond platform, accelerating the  development of new applications by licensing Element Six’s single-crystal  diamond technology. Since size, weight and power consumption  are strategic value drivers, the unique characteristics of diamond  materials offer what are reckoned to be breakthrough solutions for designers of  future generations of products. Applications of advanced power and RF  electronics, including for 6G wireless components, as well as other emerging  applications in life sciences, sensing, thermal management and  quantum computing, are expected to drive the adoption of single-crystal  diamond, a material extremely challenging to manufacture but well known for its  outstanding optical, mechanical, thermal and electrical properties. Through the collaboration, II-VI is  licensing from Element Six its intellectual property and equipment  necessary to produce high-quality single-crystal diamond, thus expanding its  core competency in diamond technology ahead of anticipated market  opportunities. “Element Six has invested hundreds of  millions of dollars for over 70 years to become a world leader in  single-crystal diamond engineering and growth. Its unique capabilities  complement II-VI’s proprietary polycrystalline diamond, a material we already  manufacture at scale,” comments Steve Rummel, senior VP, Engineered  Materials and Laser Optics business unit, II-VI Inc. “This exciting  collaboration is consistent with II-VI’s innovation strategy of making early  investments in technology platforms that are process- and capital-intensive,  and that require time to evolve, mature and scale, so we can enable our  customers’ technology roadmaps,” he adds. “With its diverse global manufacturing  footprint, growth markets expertise and a successful vertically integrated  structure, II-VI is one of the largest listed photonics and compound semiconductor  companies,” comments Element Six’s chief technologist Dr Daniel  Twitchen. “These elements make it an ideal partner to accelerate the market  adoption of this remarkable material,” he reckons. “Besides future  opportunities for electronics, there is also a wide range of near-term  applications driving the demand for accessible high-quality single-crystal  diamond, including high-power optics, high-durability parts and  high-performance thermal-management systems. We look forward to enabling these  and many new markets through this strategic collaboration with II-VI.” 