GaN power devices market to grow at over 57.4% CAGR to 2030 The global gallium nitride (GaN) power devices market is expected to grow at  a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 57.4% during 2022-2030, driven  primarily by demand for GaN in commercial radio-frequency applications, the  adoption of GaN in electric vehicles (EVs), escalating demand for wireless  charging, and a reduction in the price of GaN devices, according to a report  from Atlantic Market Research. Wireless charging in particular has been  widely adopted in smartphones and electric vehicles (EVs), with various  initiatives across the globe, and has proven to be the major market driver, paving  the way for GaN power devices. By device type, discrete GaN power devices  (transistors, field-effect transistors, MOSFETs, etc) comprised more than 50%  of the market in 2021, and will grow at a CAGR of 22.4% during the forecast  period. The primary reason for their dominance is their ease of fabrication  compared with integrated circuits (ICs) and modules. Further, discrete  power devices also offer more design flexibility in power systems. The presence of a large number of  companies manufacturing discrete devices (compared with companies involved in  IC and module manufacturing) has also aided their market growth. GaN power discrete  devices have negligible charge storage, low on-resistance and allow switching  efficiencies in excess of existing silicon devices. Further, companies are also  engaged in developing new discrete devices, creating further growth  opportunities. By vertical segment, automotive is expected to grow at the highest CAGR of 23.4% during  the forecast period. The primary reason for the widespread adoption of GaN  power devices in the automotive sector is the ability of wide-bandgap  materials such as GaN to cut electricity losses by up to 66% during vehicle  battery recharging (according to the Institute of Electrical and Electronics  Engineers). Further, GaN based power devices offer high efficiency in  terms of converting AC to DC power and also help in improving vehicular  operating in the electric traction drive. Due to the growing electric vehicle  market and the large amounts of funding going to the startups manufacturing  GaN-based power devices, the automotive-based GaN power device market  is expected to grow substantially over the forecast period. By geographic region, North America  leads the global GaN power device market after capturing the largest share  of over 37% in 2021, and is anticipated to grow at a 23% CAGR during 2022-2030.  The North America market is driven primarily by a large amount of  investments in the development of GaN power devices. In 2014, the US Department  of Energy (DOE) launched the  Power America program, with the goal that, by 2030, 80% of all US  electricity will flow through power electronics. To achieve this, Power America  is working to make wide-bandgap semiconductors such as gallium nitride and  silicon carbide (SiC) cost competitive with silicon-based power devices,  aiding the adoption of GaN power devices in the energy sector in the USA.  The market is also driven by the large pool of GaN power device makers in  North America that are committed to innovating new products related to GaN  power devices and have captured a large share of the global GaN power device  market. Key players in the North America region include Efficient Power Conversion  (USA), GaN Systems (Canada), Texas Instruments (USA) and Cree Inc (USA). The Asia Pacific GaN power device  market is expected to rise at the highest CAGR of 24.3% during 2022-2030,  driven primarily by funding for the development of GaN-based power devices. Also  driving growth is the surge in the number of electric vehicles in Asia Pacific,  as it is expected that GaN-based inverters will replace silicon-based power semiconductor  devices in electric vehicles due to their efficient AC-to-DC power  conversion. The Asia Pacific GaN power device market is also  influenced by the presence of key players in the region such as Taiwan  Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (Taiwan), Panasonic Corp (Japan),  Fujitsu (Japan), Toshiba Corp (Japan), Mitsubishi Chemical Corp  (Japan) and others. The primary strategy adopted by companies  in the GaN power device market is product launch, notes Atlantic Market Research.  New and advanced products help to improve a company’s market visibility while  competing effectively with key competitors already present in the market. The  secondary strategy is merger and acquisition, in order to expand a product  portfolio and increase market share. M&A also enables companies to extend  their market reach into unexplored regions, concludes the market research firm. 