II-VI qualifies 1200V SiC MOSFET platform to automotive standards and expands relationship with GE Engineered materials and optoelectronic component  maker II-VI Inc of Saxonburg, PA, USA has qualified its 1200V silicon carbide  (SiC) MOSFET platform, on its SiC substrates, to stringent automotive  standard requirements and is expanding its relationship with GE by signing a  three-year technology access agreement (TAA) with GE Research to gain access to the Lab’s SiC module technology  and team of experts to accelerate customer design-in engagement activities. A growing number of applications, such as in electric vehicles (EVs), renewable energy, data centers,  industrial motors and power supplies, are driving the strong demand  for SiC-based power electronics, due  to their high efficiency, lower total system-level cost of ownership,  higher reliability, and ability to achieve more compact system designs compared  with state-of-the-art silicon-based devices. Leveraging its 150mm SiC  substrates, II-VI completed the qualification of its 1200V SiC MOSFET platform  to the Automotive Electronics  Council AEC-Q101 standard, exceeding it to 200°C. “This qualification represents an important milestone that allows  us to begin ramping up our commercial activities for devices in the industrial  motor and renewable-energy markets, while in parallel initiating longer-term  design-in activities in the electric vehicle  market,” says Sohail Khan, executive VP,  New Ventures & Wide-Bandgap  Electronics Technologies. “The licensing of GE’s technology in [June] 2020  allowed us to achieve our qualification milestone ahead of schedule. The  technology access agreement will  strengthen our relationship with GE and further accelerate our time to market  as we continue to execute on our previously announced plan to grow by investing  $1bn in capacity and innovation for our SiC platform over the next ten years.” The TAA with GE Research expands the relationship with GE by  building on an earlier agreement in which II-VI licensed GE’s technology to  manufacture SiC devices and modules for power electronics.  The TAA will involve about a dozen of GE Research’s  SiC device and systems experts and test facilities, which will be dedicated to  the next phase of the commercialization of II-VI’s SiC devices and modules. The new agreement “will enable II-VI to capitalize on billions of  dollars of new market opportunities for power electronics  in the automotive, industrial and other sectors,” says Vic Abate, GE’s chief technology officer.  “As we work with II-VI to expand its market base, we will also leverage new  advancements in SiC power devices  and modules to improve GE’s position with its SiC products in the aviation  market and support other GE products in the energy and healthcare spaces that  will benefit from these more capable power electronics devices,” he adds. GE Aviation offers a portfolio of SiC-based electrical power  products for aerospace, industrial and military applications. Also, GE’s other  businesses, which include renewable-energy assets, grid infrastructure and medical imaging scanners, should all see  improved performance and efficiency through the integration of SiC-based power electronics platforms. Sample dies are available now and packaged samples are scheduled  to be available by mid-2022. 