pSemi introduces complete 5G mmWave RF front-end solution Murata company pSemi Corp of San Diego, CA, USA – a fabless  provider of radio-frequency integrated circuits (RFICs) based on  silicon-on-insulator (SOI) – has announced the expansion of its millimeter-wave  (mmWave) RF front-end (RFFE) portfolio for 5G wireless infrastructure  applications. The new pin-to-pin compatible products, including three beam-forming ICs  and two up-down converters, offer flexibility to interchange ICs for full  IF-to-RF coverage across the n257, n258 and n260 bands. This modular approach,  combined with on-chip calibration and digital correction, allows system teams  to simplify their design cycles and quickly adapt to different active antenna  design configurations. Available as discrete RFICs or as part of the Murata  28GHz antenna-integrated module, this diverse portfolio delivers performance,  integration and reliability in the smallest IC form factor, it is claimed.  Picture: pSemi’s integrated  portfolio of 5G mmWave products, which offers individual ICs as well as an  antenna-integrated module. mmWave will reach mainstream deployments first in dense urban  areas that benefit from short-range coverage supported by smart repeaters,  indoor base stations and other  small-cell applications. This increased demand for network capacity, along with  the proliferation of beam-forming and active antenna  systems, has opened new doors for SOI-CMOS technology as the preferred mmWave  platform for advanced 5G systems, says pSemi. “pSemi has offered mmWave products since 2015, deepening our  expertise and patent portfolio in high-frequency RF SOI design,” says Vikas Choudhary,  VP of sales & marketing. “This history — combined with the advanced  packaging and global manufacturing strength of our parent company, Murata — enables  us to support higher levels of integration to simplify 5G mmWave development  and deployment,” he adds. Each PE188100, PE188200 and PE189100 RFIC integrates power amplifiers (PA), low-noise amplifiers (LNA), phase shifters and switches into a single  die that provides optimal signal strength for up to 1024-element antenna  arrays. Each PE128300 and PE129100 RFIC integrates frequency multipliers,  quadrature mixers, amplifiers and switches into a single die that can be paired  with up to 16 pSemi beam-forming RFICs, or 128 total beam-former channels, to support  massive MIMO, hybrid-beam-forming  and other active antenna  configurations. pSemi and Murata have co-designed an easy-to-use 5G mmWave  antenna-integrated module (Type 1QT) that supports the 28GHz band. In a 4x4  antenna array, each module integrates high-performance antennas and pass-band  filters with pSemi beam-forming ICs and an up-down converter.  Multiple modules can be combined, allowing designers to quickly scale and build  antenna arrays of any size. 