Wolfspeed prices private offering of $650m of convertible senior notes Wolfspeed Inc (formerly Cree Inc) of Durham, NC, USA – which makes  silicon carbide materials as well as silicon carbide (SiC) and gallium nitride  (GaN) power-switching & RF semiconductor devices, for applications such as  electric vehicles (EVs), fast charging, 5G, renewable energy and  storage, and aerospace & defense – has  announced the pricing of $650m of its 0.25% convertible senior notes due 2028  in a private offering to qualified institutional buyers (pursuant to Rule 144A  under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended). The offering size was increased  from the previously announced $500m. In addition, Wolfspeed has granted the initial purchasers of the  notes an option to purchase (for settlement within a 13-day period from, and  including, the date on which the notes are first issued) up to an additional  $100m of notes (again, upsized from the previously announced $75m). The sale of the notes to the initial purchasers is expected to  settle on 3 February (subject to the  satisfaction of customary closing conditions) and is expected to yield about  $634.6m in net proceeds (or $732.3m if the initial purchasers exercise their  option to purchase additional notes in full) after deducting the initial  purchasers’ discount and estimated offering expenses payable by Wolfspeed. The notes will be unsecured, senior obligations of Wolfspeed. They  will bear interest at a rate of 0.25% per year, payable semi-annually in  arrears on 15 February and 15 August of each year, beginning on 15 August 2022. The notes will mature on 15 February 2028, unless earlier  repurchased, redeemed or converted. Wolfspeed intends to use about $93.7m of the net proceeds to fund  the cost of entering into capped call  transactions. The firm intends to use the remainder of the net proceeds for  general corporate purposes. If the initial purchasers exercise their option to  purchase additional notes, then Wolfspeed intends to use a portion of those  proceeds to fund the cost of entering into additional capped call transactions. The initial conversion rate for the notes is 7.8602 shares of  Wolfspeed’s common stock per $1000  of notes (equivalent to an initial conversion price of about $127.22 per share of Wolfspeed’s common stock).  Conversions of the notes will be settled in cash, shares of Wolfspeed’s common stock or a combination thereof, at  Wolfspeed’s election. The initial conversion price represents a conversion  premium of about 35% over the last reported sale price of $94.24 per share of  Wolfspeed’s common stock on the New York Stock Exchange  on 31 January. In connection with the pricing of the notes, Wolfspeed entered  into privately negotiated capped call  transactions with one or more of the initial purchasers of the notes or their  affiliates. The capped call  transactions cover (subject to anti-dilution adjustments substantially similar  to those applicable to the notes) the number of shares of Wolfspeed’s common stock that will initially underlie the  notes. If the initial purchasers exercise their option to purchase additional  notes, Wolfspeed expects to enter into additional capped call transactions with the option counterparties. The cap price of the capped call  transactions will initially be $212.04 per share, which represents a premium of  125% over the last reported sale price of $94.24 per share of Wolfspeed’s  common stock on the New York Stock Exchange  on 31 January, and is subject to  certain adjustments under the terms of the capped call  transactions. 