ams OSRAM’s Belago 1.1 Dot Projector featured in Luxonis’ new 3D vision spatial AI cameras ams OSRAM of Premstaetten, Austria has announced a new partnership with  Luxonis, a developer of embedded artificial intelligence  (AI) and computer vision technology. Luxonis provides 3D solutions for  automatic guided vehicles (AGVs), robots, drones and more that help to create  high-quality 3D maps for applications such as object detection and obstacle  avoidance. A key component are infrared light sources, such as ams OSRAM’s Belago 1.1 Dot Projector,  which combines an infrared vertical-cavity surface-emitting laser (VCSEL) chip  with special optics and a robust package that is suited to active stereo vision  (ASV). With ASV, two infrared cameras read the pattern that Belago 1.1 projects on a defined field-of-view.  By comparing the images of both cameras, depth is calculated, and a 3D map is  created. Obstacles are detected on the 3D map, prompting the robot to take  action, such as stopping or going around the obstacle. Luxonis chose ams OSRAM’s Belago 1.1 for its recent OAK-D Pro  spatial AI camera, which provides fast and accurate object detection through  AI. Its open-source software allows for fast and flexible integration into a  wide variety of application environments. Stereo cameras featuring the Belago 1.1 Dot Projector  are said to offer accurate depth perception for any scene and lighting  condition for object tracking in real-time. “Active stereo is incredibly powerful and useful in robotics – but  it was a missing piece in the OAK ecosystem until now – primarily because we  wanted a solution with rock-solid eye safety.  Given the open nature of our ecosystem, it was pivotal that we be eye safe,” says Luxonis’ CEO Brandon Gilles.  “We were ecstatic when we found Belago 1.1  because its architecture allows simple and robust eye safety, which enables Luxonis and our customers to  autonomously integrate active stereo depth safely and confidently, unlocking  untold applicability,” he adds. The Belago 1.1 Dot Projector features an infrared pattern  projector for increased depth performance. The product includes 5000 individual  light dots, which are generated by  combining a VCSEL with a micro-lens array (MLA) optical system. “The Belago 1.1 provides very stable, focus-free dot projection for increased texture on the  scene and ASV depth performance,” says Joerg Wertli, senior marketing manager at ams OSRAM. “Applied in Luxonis’ latest ASV camera, customers  have access to a turnkey 3D solution for quick adoption in a wide range of  applications,” he adds. The compact dimensions of 4.2mm x 3.6mm x 3.3mm allow customers to develop  space-saving system designs, says ams OSRAM.  The Belago 1.1 emits light with a  wavelength of 940nm for operation independent of ambient light conditions. The  robot’s path is reliably detected at a distance of 1-3m for collision  avoidance. The Luxonis OAK-D Pro also uses ams OSRAM’s  SFH 4725AS A01 infrared LED for flood illumination for no-light compute vision  and perception. 