Smartphone shipments down 3.2% year-on-year in Q4, but full-year 2021 still up 5.7% In fourth-quarter 2021, global smartphone shipments declined  year-over-year for a second consecutive quarter. However, despite a challenging  second half of the year, full-year shipments still grew due to a strong first  half, according to the International Data Corporation (IDC) Worldwide Quarterly  Mobile Phone Tracker. Smartphone vendors shipped a total of 362.4 million  phones during the holiday quarter (Q4/2021), which was down 3.2% year-on-year  but slightly better than IDC’s forecast. On an annual basis, the market grew  5.7% in 2021, with 1.35 billion smartphones shipped. “The second half of 2021 failed to meet expectations, with volumes  declining 4.5% compared to the second half of 2020,” says Ryan Reith, group  vice president with IDC’s Worldwide Mobile Device Trackers. “The  supply chain and component shortages started to have meaningful impact on  the smartphone market as we entered the second half of the year, and this  continues to be the case as we’ve now entered 2022,” he adds. “We expect to see  supply and logistical challenges continue through the first half of this year,  but we currently believe we’ll return to growth in the second quarter and  second half of 2022. There is no question that demand is still strong in  many markets, and to some extent we are seeing increasing consumer interest in  5G and new form factors like foldables.”  Despite a slight year-over-year decline in shipments, Apple had a  good holiday quarter, once again jumping above Samsung into the top spot. Its  supply chain strength was on display more than ever in fourth-quarter  2021. iPhone 13 SKUs were an impressive portion of volumes in the holiday  quarter, driving strong growth in overall iPhone average selling prices (ASPs). Samsung and Xiaomi followed with the second and third spots. These  were the only vendors of the top five that grew shipments year-on-year in  Q4/2021, IDC notes. OPPO and vivo rounded out the top five. 
  For full-year 2021, all five vendors grew shipments  year-over-year, with four out of five achieving double-digit growth. While  Xiaomi had the highest annual growth (reaching almost 30%), Samsung had the  lowest (just 6% growth). This contrast clearly illustrates which vendor  benefitted the most from the massive decline of Huawei this year. Apple too had healthy annual growth of 15.9% in 2021 for reasons  already mentioned as well as due to the 40% growth in China in 2021. “The fact that 2021 would have come in drastically higher if it  were not for the supply constraints adds even more positivity to the healthy  5.7% growth we saw for 2021,” comments Nabila Popal, research director  with IDC’s Mobility and Consumer Device Trackers. “There is significant pent-up  demand in almost all regions. Even in China, where there are some challenges  around weakening consumer demand, the market performed much better in the  fourth quarter than expected – 5% better to be exact –  albeit still a year-over-year decline. With channel inventory low in almost all  regions and as supply constraints ease up towards the middle of the year, IDC  expects this pent-up demand to drive the market toward healthy growth in 2022.” 