Smartphone shipment recovery to continue in 2022, growing 4% to 1.386 billion units Since reaching a peak  of 1.457 billion units in 2017, it has been difficult for  smartphones to significantly increase their penetration rate, notes market  research firm TrendForce. In addition, mobile phone hardware updates have slowed, which has  lengthened the consumer replacement cycle. Together with the negative effects  of the COVID-19 pandemic, growth in overall smartphone shipment volume has  become increasingly difficult to achieve. However, based on the  premise that the pandemic is slowing down, coupled with the strategy of certain  brands actively exploring emerging markets, growth momentum in the global  smartphone market gradually got back on track in 2021, with shipments reaching  1.333 billion units, or 6.4% growth year-on-year. This  upward trend is expected to continue in 2022, with shipments expected to reach  1.386 billion, or 4% growth year-on-year. However, the status of  the pandemic is still the biggest concern affecting the smartphone market this  year, and this applies doubly to the production capacity of semiconductors,  TrendForce stresses. The current problem of material shortages has yet to be  alleviated, and RF chips, organic  light-emitting diode (OLED) display driver integrated circuits  (DDICs) and power management  integrated circuits (PMICs) continue to be in short supply. In addition, issues  such as China’s rolling blackouts, spiking shipping costs and rising chip costs, will cause smartphone brands to face price  pressures, and it remains to be seen whether higher prices will be acceptable  to consumers. Judging from the 2022  brand market share forecast, Samsung will remain number one, followed by Apple, Xiaomi, OPPO, VIVO and  Transsion, reckons TrendForce. Among these companies, Xiaomi is the brand with  the fastest-growing annual shipment  growth rate. In addition to stimulating sales in the Chinese market through the  strategy of expanding brick-and-mortar  stores, Xiaomi’s sales occur mostly overseas, and it is first in market share in India and Russia. In the future, it will  continue to explore the Middle East,  Latin America, Southeast Asia and Africa markets. Folding phones, 5G,  self-developed chips and a reduction in the number of rear-facing cameras are  the four keys to focus on this year. In terms of 5G mobile phones,  the global penetration rate in 2021 was 37%. This is expected to rise to 47% in  2022, and may exceed 50% by 2023. Currently, China is the most active country  in promoting 5G models, which comprise more than 80% of shipments. So, the key  to increasing the global penetration rate of 5G mobile phones in the future is focusing on regions outside  China. In the past, only  Samsung, Apple and Huawei were capable of self-developing chips. However,  Google launched its self-developed Tensor processor in 2021, and Xiaomi, OPPO  and VIVO have each launched professional imaging chips in succession, notes TrendForce. 