Cepton using OSRAM’s 905nm IR edge-emitting lasers for LiDAR series production ams OSRAM of Premstaetten, Austria is expanding its partnership with Cepton  Technologies of San Jose, CA, USA to provide light detection & ranging  (LiDAR) solutions for advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS),  autonomous vehicles (AVs), smart infrastructure and robotic vehicles. After partnering with ams OSRAM since its founding in 2016, Cepton  recently secured an order from a global, top-five automotive OEM (based in Detroit)  for large-scale LiDAR series production for ADAS. LiDAR calculates how long it  takes for a laser beam to hit an object and reflect back. These measurements  help to create a 3D map of the vehicle’s surroundings to help guide the  vehicle safely. Infrared illumination allows the vehicle to ‘see’ its  environment and is a key part of any LiDAR system. ams OSRAM has a  portfolio of lasers that power many LiDAR systems. After its recent production win, Cepton expects to be the first  LiDAR company to provide mass-market LiDAR solutions that feature  ams OSRAM’s 905nm infrared lasers in ADAS across multiple vehicle models  (not just luxury vehicles) by 2023. ams OSRAM says that its compact laser diodes feature  multi-junction laser technology with three epitaxially grown emitters stacked  on top of each other. The laser can operate at temperatures up to 125°C. “As we looked for a laser source partner for our mass-market  LiDAR solution, ams OSRAM’s high-performance, compact size and  automotive-grade edge-emitting laser provided a prime opportunity,” comments Cepton’s  CEO & co-founder Dr Jun Pei. “Combined with the eye-safe  operation at 905nm wavelength enabled by ams OSRAM, our proprietary MMT  (Micro Motion Technology) imaging platform strikes the right balance  between performance, cost and reliability, enabling the mainstream adoption of  LiDAR in everyday consumer vehicles,” he adds. ams OSRAM has been providing both edge-emitting lasers (EELs)  and vertical-cavity surface-emitting lasers (VCSELs) for over a decade. The  firm introduced the first 905nm edge-emitting laser, which today is the most  commonly used wavelength in LiDAR because of its low cost and reliability. ams OSRAM  says that it continues to invest in advancing 905nm laser technology, making it  more efficient and easier to integrate. “Our 905nm lasers are some of the most efficient in the market,  delivering the long-range measurements needed by autonomous vehicles to  operate in any weather condition from rain and snow to fog,” says Joerg  Strauss, senior VP & general manager of Visualization & Laser  at ams OSRAM. “We are thrilled to continue our long relationship with  Cepton by providing laser technology for its mass-market, scalable,  automotive-grade LiDAR sensors,” he adds. “Cepton’s end-to-end LiDAR solutions  are making our roadways safer by reducing accidents and enabling ADAS.” 