TRUMPF and Metalenz demo VCSELs with stable polarization for smartphone illumination At Photonics West 2022 in San  Francisco (22-27 January), TRUMPF Photonic Components GmbH of Ulm, Germany  (part of the TRUMPF Group) - which manufactures vertical-cavity  surface-emitting lasers (VCSELs) and photodiodes for the consumer electronics,  datacoms, industrial sensing, heating and automotive markets - presented  a live showcase on VCSELs with controlled polarization for illumination  applications. TRUMPF says that it is building on  more than 15 years  of experience in the production of polarization-stabilizing gratings. Together  with Metalenz, a Boston-based pioneer in designing and commercializing  meta-optics, TRUMPF has demonstrated how next-generation consumer electronic  devices benefit from smaller and smarter components. Both companies demonstrated that,  with their new components, in future only half or even less optical components  are needed to support bright, 3D scene illumination of smartphone cameras.  Not only the amount of components but also the space between components can be  reduced. Smartphone makers can hence gain a competitive advantage from these  compact components, it is reckoned. The showcase at Photonics West  demonstrated how to easily switch between two illumination patterns using  limited amount of optical components. By using a VCSEL with stable and advanced  linear polarization and putting meta-optics on top of the VCSEL, only two smart  components are needed to create both the function of flood illumination as well  as the structured light illumination. TRUMPF has developed the patented  technology of VCSELs with stable polarization, which is locked by a surface  grating that is directly etched into the gallium arsenide (GaAs).  Polarized VCSELs achieve almost 100% of the efficiency compared to standard  VCSELs, regarding a slope efficiency of 1W/A. The high quality is based on  TRUMPF’s own designs and processes to realize extremely low losses. The design of the VCSEL can come  with a single mesa or as an array. “With our development of polarized VCSELs we  are addressing demanding 3D illumination applications not only in smartphones  but also in OLED screens or in virtual reality (VR) and augmented reality  (AR) applications. Market release of our next-generation, advanced polarized  VCSEL is intended to be in 2023“, says TRUMPF Photonic Components’  CEO Berthold Schmidt. “Working together with Metalenz enables us to visualize  the promising solution for illumination within smartphone devices,” he adds.  Not only the form factor and the optical system complexity can be  reduced by the next generation of VCSEL in combination with the right optics,  but also the illumination quality is improved by the controlled light. The  laser light is only projected to where it is needed, so the resolution is  increased, even for longer distances, and overall power savings can be reached.  The laser components in a smartphone can be used for illumination applications  such as face recognition,  3D mapping  or camera autofocus. “Together with the VCSEL from  TRUMPF we show how two leading-edge technologies can revolutionize the  technical standards in smartphones for light illumination,” says Carlos Calvo,  VP of product at Metalenz. “We are happy to demonstrate the high quality in  illumination together with TRUMPF. The laser diodes and our meta-optic  technology are a perfect complement,” he reckons. 