NUBURU secures new funding and appoints COO and VP of global sales High-power blue laser technology firm NUBURU Inc of Centennial, CO,  USA (which was founded in 2015)  says that it has raised additional growth capital, bringing the total valuation  to about $350m. Existing investors Anzu Partners,  GRAPHA Holdings and Thomas Wilson participated in the funding round. The new funds will be utilized to expand NUBURU’s presence across  its target markets, including automotive, aerospace, consumer electronics, and defense. The firm’s industrial  blue laser technology is said to  bring speed and quality improvements to welding and metal 3D printing of copper, aluminum and other  reflective metals to increase productivity for manufacturers globally. To boost  commercialization efforts, NUBURU has also brought in experienced technology  executive Brian Faircloth as chief operating officer  and promoted Andrew Dodd to VP of global sales. Faircloth brings over 20 years of operations, engineering and  marketing experience, scaling high-tech companies in the laser and energy  industries. Prior to joining NUBURU, he spent nearly 13 years as a technical leader at high-power laser company  ForoEnergy, where he served as VP of engineering and as chief technology officer. During his tenure, he managed  R&D and engineering of high-power laser and optics development for oil, gas  and geothermal applications. Earlier in his career, he held executive and  director roles at laser technology companies Nuvonyx and Coherent. Faircloth  has master’s degrees in electrical engineering and applied physics from Washington University in St. Louis and six sigma from Villanova, as well as master certificates in  business management and marketing from Tulane. “NUBURU’s blue laser technology brings improvements in metal  processing, unlocking critical advantages to manufacturers across industries,”  comments Faircloth. Dodd, a 30-year veteran of the laser development and material  processing industries, joined NUBURU in 2019 as the North American market development manager and  has recently been promoted to VP of global sales  as the firm enters this new growth phase. NUBURU says that, since joining it, Dodd  has been instrumental to laying the foundations for commercial expansion, and  that he brings global sales leadership and a strong track record from his  tenures at GSI Lumonics, Amada  WeldTech, and BLM Group North America. “As electrification and advances in manufacturing drive growth in  our target markets, this capital infusion, appointment of Mr Faircloth as COO and Mr Dodd’s promotion to VP of global sales ensures continued momentum for  NUBURU,” says CEO, co-founder & chairman Dr Mark Zediker. “Looking ahead, we are focused  on growing our customer base, expanding our distribution channels, accelerating  development of our ultra-high-brightness product family, and scaling our  manufacturing operations to meet demand globally.” 