IVWorks acquires Saint-Gobain’s GaN wafer business IVWorks Co Ltd of Daejeon, South Korea – which was founded in 2011  and manufactures 100-200mm gallium nitride (GaN) epitaxial wafers for RF  & power electronics applications – has acquired the GaN wafer business of France-based materials  maker Saint-Gobain, which designs, manufactures and distributes materials and  services for the construction and industrial markets. GaN epiwafers are  used in manufacturing power devices  for high-speed chargers, electric vehicle  (EV) power conversion, and defense radars. Silicon carbide (SiC) or silicon  substrates are used to stack III-N films depending on the application field,  but GaN wafers are required for high-power devices such as EV powertrains, says  IVWorks. The firm comments  that Saint-Gobain in France and some Japanese material companies (such as  Sumitomo and Mitsubishi) are leading in GaN wafer production technology. With  the acquisition of the GaN wafer business from Saint-Gobain, IVWorks reckons that it has acquired  state-of-the-art technology for the mass production  of 4-inch and 6-inch diameter GaN wafers. IVWorks says it  is the sole South Korean enterprise  specializing in semiconductor materials that has mass-produced GaN epiwafers of  4-, 6- and 8-inch diameters. The firm also claims in-house development of the  first epiwafer production technology integrated with an artificial intelligence (AI) production system. The  start-up has also recently installed a 12-inch production facility for the  first time in South Korea.  Picture:   IVWorks’ 12-inch GaN epiwafer production  MBE equipment. “The use of  GaN power devices is increasing  significantly in all electronic products due to their advantages in terms of  energy efficiency, and interest in  GaN is high in the EV applications, a new market area,” notes IVWorks’ CEO  Young-Kyun Noh. “Based on this acquisition, we will be able to expand our  product portfolio by supplying GaN-on-GaN epiwafers in high-power application  fields and compete with SiC materials in the EV market,” he reckons. 