HSR clearance for Lumentum’s acquisition of NeoPhotonics San Jose-based Lumentum Holdings Inc (which designs and makes  photonics products for optical networks and lasers for industrial and consumer  markets) has announced the  expiration of the waiting period under the Hart–Scott–Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 (HSR Act) with respect to its pending acquisition  of NeoPhotonics Corp – a vertically integrated  designer and manufacturer of silicon photonics and hybrid  photonic integrated circuit (PIC)-based lasers, modules and  subsystems for high-speed communications. Expiration of  the waiting period under the HSR Act  satisfies one of the conditions to completion of the transaction contemplated  by the agreement and plan of merger, announced on 3 November. Lumentum agreed  to acquire NeoPhotonics for $16 per share in cash (a total equity value of  about $918m). It intends to finance the transaction through cash from the  combined company’s balance sheet. Lumentum will also provide up to $50m in term loans to NeoPhotonics to fund anticipated  growth, which may require increased working capital and manufacturing capacity. The  transaction has been unanimously approved by the boards of directors of both  companies. Consummation remains subject to other customary closing conditions  set forth in the merger agreement, including approval of NeoPhotonics’  stockholders and approval from the State Administration for Market Regulation  (SAMR) of the People’s Republic of China. The transaction is expected to close  in second-half 2022. Lumentum  reckons that the complementary combination of the two firms accelerates its  exposure to and penetration of some of the fastest-growing areas of the more  than $10bn market for optical components used in cloud and telecom network  infrastructure. “The integrated company will be better positioned to serve the  needs of a global customer base that is increasingly utilizing photonics to accelerate  the shift to digital and virtual approaches to work and life, the proliferation  of IoT, 5G and next-generation mobile networks, and the transition to advanced  cloud computing architectures,” says Lumentum. “The combination creates a  stronger partner for customers, with the ability and intent to invest strongly  in innovation and manufacturing capacity,” it adds. Lumentum  reckons that there are significant efficiency gains to be made through the  acquisition, derived from increased scale, reducing redundancies and leveraging  the best capabilities in the combination. The combined firm is expected to  generate more than $50m in annual run-rate synergies within 24 months of the finalizing the acquisition.  The transaction is expected to be immediately accretive to combined non-GAAP  earnings per share upon closing. The combined company is expected to have a  solid balance sheet and strong  operating cash flows, creating  substantial financial flexibility to pursue continued growth initiatives. 