CSconnected ‘Strength in Places Fund’ project to focus on overcoming skills barriers A £43m, 55-month project part-funded by £25m through UK Research and Innovation’s flagship  Strength in Places Fund (SIPF) is focusing on strengthening the  emerging regional compound semiconductor cluster CSconnected in South Wales  around advanced semiconductor materials, research and manufacturing. The skills element of the ‘CSconnected Strength in Places  Fund’ project has deliverables in Continuing Professional Development (CPD) and  in the coordination of education and outreach initiatives. Both are essential  to help overcome the skills barriers that are currently limiting the growth of  the CS cluster. A new report is available that identifies the short- to mid-term  CPD needs and demand from the compound semiconductor industry in South Wales.  The ‘Continuing Professional Development (CPD) scoping report - CSconnected  Strength in Places Fund’ was first made available in November by  Cardiff University’s CPD unit after consultations with the CSconnected industry  partners to better understand how to support growth of the semiconductor  cluster in South Wales. This CPD Scoping Report forms a first-stage deliverable in  the CSconnected SIPF skills work package that seeks to resource and  accelerate the development of skills initiatives that will create the skilled  workforce of the future for the region. CPD aims to up-skill existing employees, re-skill professionals  from related sectors (potentially those made redundant) and provide new skills  in the latest research and technology developments. It also supports outreach  and engagement initiatives through activities to upskill teachers, careers  advisors and youth influencers, who are all essential to feeding the pipeline  of the future workforce. The report focuses on current gaps in provision and makes a series  of recommendations about which CPD activities should now be prioritized for  development. Skills development will be essential to enabling growth of the  CSconnected cluster, since the number of jobs is expected to more than double  over the next three years. An aim is for CPD activities to reach more than  1000 semiconductor professionals by 2025, including employees from supply chain  organizations. The CPD topics being developed in first-half 2022 are: The intention is for  these priority CPD courses to be available from summer 2022. They will be offered  out on a chargeable basis and will be available to both individuals (looking to  re-skill into the sector) and organizations (who are already embracing/plan to  embrace compound semiconductor  technologies). To further support the delivery of the CSconnected SIPF skills  package, Cardiff University and CSconnected are scoping the design and delivery  of a range of outreach activities that will be undertaken over the next four  years to increase interest in STEM related subjects and careers. CSconnected  SIPF is also represented on the Cardiff Capital Region Regional Skills  Partnership (CCRRSP) board that support the delivery of a shared CCR employment  and skills agenda for the City Deal and Welsh Government. 