TRUMPF presents controlled-polarized VCSEL at Photonics West In booth 327 at the  Photonics West fair 2022, TRUMPF Photonic Components GmbH of Ulm, Germany (part of the TRUMPF Group),  which manufactures vertical-cavity surface-emitting lasers (VCSELs) and  photodiodes for the consumer electronics, datacoms,  industrial sensing, heating and automotive markets, is presenting a  live showcase of VCSELs with controlled polarization for illumination  applications. The new VCSEL should lead to much  smaller construction space needed in, for example, smartphones for 3D scene  illumination. Together with Metalenz, a Boston-based pioneer in designing and  commercializing meta-optics, TRUMPF demonstrates how future consumer electronic devices benefit from  these smaller and smarter components. This technology progress is enabled  through the development of VCSELs with stable polarization. At Photonics West, TRUMPF is also  presenting its portfolio of single-mode and multi-mode VCSELs, which can be  used for a wide range of advanced industrial and consumer sensing applications,  from oxygen sensor to face recognition. The portfolio includes a new  single-mode VCSEL for highly precise time-of-flight sensors. With ViBO (VCSEL  with integrated backside optics) TRUMPF is showcasing another new VCSEL  solution that comes with monolithically integrated micro-optical elements. This  technology benefits applications such as light detection & ranging (LiDAR)  or augmented reality (AR)  glasses, as ViBO comes with a significantly reduced footprint and offers great  freedom in design, as tailored illumination profiles can be created. The VCSEL heating systems showcased  at the show enable direct heat treatment  with fully controllable emission zones. They offer what is reckoned to be huge  potential for various industrial applications – from more sustainable  Li-battery production to local softening of metal automotive parts to  photovoltaic applications. In the production of Li-batteries for example, they  enable faster and more energy-efficient drying of active material and therefore  a much more efficient production process. The modules are highly flexible and  compact, enabling high efficiency and quality. The portfolio of TRUMPF Photonic  Components is completed by VCSEL and photodiode solutions for optical  communications. Media transmission via fiber optical communication is a growing field, as the amount of  data that has to be transferred is increasing. The solutions offer high date rates at low power consumption and low latency to  fulfill the highest demands of data centers. 