CSA Catapult appoints Raj Gawera as non-executive director The UK’s not-for-profit  Compound Semiconductor Applications (CSA) Catapult (based in South Wales) has expanded its board of directors and  appointed Raj Gawera as a non-executive director. Established by UK Government agency Innovate UK (which provides  funding and support for business innovation as part of UK Research and  Innovation), CSA Catapult is a not-for-profit organization (headquartered in  South Wales) focused on accelerating the adoption of compound semiconductors  and on bringing applications to life in four technology areas: power  electronics, RF & microwave, advanced packaging and photonics. It works  across the UK in a range of industry sectors from automotive to medical, and  from digital communications to aerospace. Picture:   CSA Catapult’s new non-executive  director Raj Gawera. Gawera has over 25 years  of experience in short-range and wireless communications technology R&D,  business development and marketing. He was part of the initial IEEE 802.11 team that defined the first WLAN  standard in 1996, a technology which has now shipped over 5 billion units. He also helped pioneer the  first 3G data transmissions, working  with Motorola and others to demonstrate one of the first video calls at the 3GSM show in 1998, many  years before 3G licences were awarded. In 1999, Gawera was a founder member of start-up UbiNetics, which  successfully exited in 2005 for over $120m. As part of that deal, he joined CSR  and ultimately took the role of VP marketing,  where (in 2009) he was part of the team that acquired SiRF Technologies for  $136m to add GPS technology to CSR portfolio. In 2012, Gawera helped sell CSR’s  handset business to Samsung in a deal worth $310m for 310 staff. As part of  that deal, he took up the role of VP marketing  responsible for defining future wireless products. In 2014, Gawera was promoted to head the SCSC subsidiary leading  the silicon and software development for Samsung’s connectivity solutions. He  is now responsible for several European development centers delivering  leading-edge technology into Samsung’s semiconductor division. The technology  from these development centers has now been in mass production in hundreds of  millions of units across multiple global customers in mobile and Internet of Things (IoT) products. “His wealth of experience  and expertise within wireless comms technology is a fantastic addition to our  non-executive team,” comments CSA Catapult’s CEO Martin McHugh. “We look forward to working with Raj in  2022, which is sure to be an exciting year for the Catapult.” 