Micro-LED chip market for large-sized displays to grow at 204% CAGR from $54m in 2022 to $4.5bn in 2026 With micro-LED large-sized displays moving towards the home theater  and high-end commercial display markets, revenue for micro-LED large-sized  display chips will be $54m in 2022 then rise at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR)  of 204% to $4.5bn in 2026, forecasts market research firm TrendForce. Technical  obstacles will be conquered one by one over time, it adds. The development of  micro-LED large-sized displays will peak between 2026 and 2030, and annual  revenue for micro-LED chips has the opportunity to reach tens of billions of dollars,  reckons the firm.  In recent years, major global brands in various regions have  released micro/mini-LED self-emissive large-sized display products, notes TrendForce.  The world’s leading TV maker Samsung released a 146-inch TV (‘The  Wall’) in 2018 and continues to release 75-inch, 89-inch, 101-inch, 110-inch,  219-inch and 292-inch large tiled wall displays at the Consumer Electronics  Show (CES) in Las Vegas each year. Due to the evolution of different  application scenarios and technologies, the future development trend of  micro-LED large-sized displays will be in home theaters, corporate  headquarters, and boutique stores, it is reckoned. Commercial indoor and  outdoor large-sized displays are mainly based on mini-LED self-emissive  large-sized displays. To satisfy the requirements of close indoor viewing,  micro-LED large-sized displays require a theater-level experience, seamless  tiled display splicing, pursuit of zero borders, thin design, and competitive  pricing. Thus, active matrix (AM) would be the first choice for display  design. Existing micro-LED large-sized displays still face the dual  challenges of technology and cost (including micro-LED chip cost) and the three  key technologies of backplane technology, driving technology, and the mass transfer  process, notes TrendForce. In terms of micro-LED chip cost, due to the enormous number  of chips used and the need for consistent wavelength uniformity to achieve  perfect display quality, the cleanroom level requirements for epitaxial  and chip processes, control of process conditions, and inspection and  maintenance during processes are very strict, greatly increasing the relative  process defect rate and overall cost. 