EPC makes available GaN Power Bench suite of design tools Efficient  Power Conversion Corp (EPC) of El Segundo, CA, USA – which makes  enhancement-mode gallium nitride on silicon (eGaN) power  field-effect transistors (FETs) and integrated circuits for power  management applications –  says that the new GaN Power Bench is a suite of design tools to assist engineers in getting  optimal performance from their GaN-based designs. EPC says that  eGaN FETs and ICs provide designers employing any power conversion  topology the opportunity to achieve significant performance enhancements  compared with silicon devices. User-friendly tools like those in the GaN Power Bench  make it easy for designers to extract the optimal performance out of their  GaN-based designs, the firm adds. The GaN FET Selection Tool for Buck Converters Calculator is an  enhanced product selection tool that uses estimation and calculation for a  hard-switched buck converter. Designers can input specific design parameters  to receive a selection of devices ranked by power dissipation to determine  possible parameter trade-offs. The objective of this selection tool is to help  find the best GaN FETs to fit specific power system design needs.  Additional topologies will be added in the future. The GaN FET Thermal Calculator provides quick estimates for the  thermal performance parameters of PCB-mounted GaN devices subject to both  board-side cooling through forced convection and backside cooling through a  thermal solution consisting of a heat spreader and heatsink. This thermal  calculator accounts for the PCB construction (size, stack-up, and via density),  die sizes, power losses, TIM materials, and heat-sink solution. The Cross Reference Search provides instant access to  cross-referenced and replacements for many silicon-based power management  devices with eGaN FETs. This tool allows for easy comparison of parametric  differences without opening a single data-sheet to identify the optimal eGaN FET  to increase design efficiency. A competitor’s part number can simply be entered  to find a suggested GaN device replacement. 