EVG launches automated SmartNIL nanoimprint and wafer-level optics system EV Group of St Florian, Austria – a supplier of wafer bonding  and lithography equipment for semiconductor, micro-electro-mechanical systems  (MEMS) and nanotechnology applications – has introduced the EVG7300 automated SmartNIL nanoimprint and  wafer-level optics system as its  most advanced solution, combining multiple UV-based process capabilities such  as nanoimprint lithography (NIL), lens molding  and lens stacking (UV bonding), in a  single platform. The  industry-ready, multi-functional system is designed to serve advanced R&D  and production needs for a wide range of emerging applications involving micro-  and nano-patterning as well as functional layer stacking. These include  wafer-level optics (WLO), optical  sensors and projectors, automotive lighting, waveguides for augmented reality (AR) headsets, bio-medical  devices, meta-lenses and meta-surfaces, and optoelectronics. Supporting wafer  sizes up to 300mm and featuring high-precision alignment, advanced process control and high throughput, the EVG7300  meets the high-volume manufacturing needs for a variety of free-form and  high-precision nano- and micro-optical components and devices.  Picture:   The EVG7300 SmartNIL nanoimprint and wafer-level optics system, which  combines multiple UV-based process capabilities in a single platform. 

  “With  more than 20 years of experience in nanoimprint technology, EV Group  continues to pioneer this critical field to develop innovative solutions to  meet our customers’ evolving needs,” says corporate technology director Thomas  Glinsner. “The latest introduction to our family of nanoimprint solutions, the  EVG7300, combines our SmartNIL full-field imprint technology with lens molding  and lens stacking in a state-of-the-art system with the most precise  alignment and process parameter control on the market — providing our customers  with unprecedented flexibility for their industry research and production  needs.” The  EVG7300 system is offered as both a stand-alone tool as well as an integrated  module in EVG’s HERCULES NIL fully integrated UV-NIL track solution,  where additional pre-processing steps (such as cleaning, resist coating and  baking or post-processing) can be added to optimize for particular process  needs. The system features alignment accuracy down to 300nm, which is enabled  by a combination of alignment stage improvements, high-accuracy optics,  multi-point gap control, non-contact gap measurement and multi-point  force control. The  EVG7300 is a highly flexible platform that offers three different process modes  (lens molding, lens stacking and SmartNIL nanoimprint) and support  for substrate sizes ranging from 150mm to 300mm wafers. Quick loading of stamps  and wafers, fast alignment optics, high-power curing and a small tool footprint  enable what is said to be a highly efficient platform capable of serving the  industry’s manufacturing needs for emerging WLO products. EVG is accepting orders for the system, and product demonstrations  are now available at the firm’s NILPhotonics Competence Center at its headquarters. EVG is giving an invited talk on the benefits of NIL in  manufacturing augmented reality  waveguides at the SPIE AR/VR/MR Conference and Exhibition, co-located with SPIE  Photonics West, at the Moscone Center in San Francisco  (22-27 January). EVG is also  exhibiting at the event, showcasing its manufacturing solutions for optical and  photonic devices and applications. 