ULTRARAM memory demonstrated on silicon wafers for first time A type of patented computer memory known as ULTRARAM has been  demonstrated on silicon wafers for the first time, representing a step towards  its large-scale manufacture (Peter D. Hodgson et  al, ‘ULTRARAM: A Low-Energy, High-Endurance, Compound-Semiconductor  Memory on Silicon’, Advanced Electronic Materials; DOI: 10.1002/aelm.202101103). ULTRARAM combines the non-volatility of a data storage memory like  flash with the speed, energy efficiency and endurance of a working memory like  dynamic random access memory (DRAM). To do this it utilizes the properties  of compound semiconductors to yield a non-volatile memory with the potential to  achieve fast, ultralow-energy electron storage in a floating gate accessed  through a triple-barrier resonant tunneling heterostructure. Initially patented in the USA, further patents on the technology  are currently being progressed in key technology markets around the world.  However, Due to the maturity of the silicon chip-making industry and the  multi-billion dollar cost of building chip factories, implementation of  any digital electronic technology on silicon wafers is essential for its  commercialization. Now, in a collaboration in the UK between the Physics and  Engineering Departments at Lancaster University and the Department of Physics  at Warwick University, ULTRARAM has been implemented on a silicon substrate for  the first time (a vital step towards cost-effective mass production). “ULTRARAM on silicon is a huge advance for our research,  overcoming very significant materials challenges of large crystalline lattice mismatch,  the change from elemental to compound semiconductor and differences in  thermal contraction,” says professor Manus Hayne of Lancaster’s Department of  Physics, who leads the work. Picture:   ULTRARAM device concept: schematic  cross-section of a device with corresponding material layers. The floating gate  (FG), triple-barrier resonant-tunneling structure (TBRT), and readout channel  are highlighted. Arrows indicate the direction of electron flow during  program/erase operations. Sample growth  using molecular beam epitaxy (MBE) begins with the deposition of an  aluminium antimonide (AlSb) nucleation layer to seed the growth of a  gallium antimonide (GaSb) buffer layer, followed by the III–V memory  epilayers. Fabricated single-cell memories show clear 0/1 logic-state contrast  after ≤10ms duration program/erase pulses of ≈2.5V (a remarkably fast  switching speed for 10µm and 20µm devices). Furthermore, the combination  of low voltage and small device capacitance per unit area results in a  switching energy that is orders of magnitude lower than DRAM and flash, for a  given cell size. 