Transphorm ships over 1 million GaN devices for fast chargers and power adapters in December Transphorm Inc of Goleta, near Santa Barbara, CA, USA — which  designs and manufactures JEDEC- and AEC-Q101-qualified gallium nitride (GaN) field-effect transistors (FETs) for high-voltage power conversion applications — says that it shipped  more than 1 million SuperGaN Gen IV FETs in December. The firm says  that the milestone confirms its previously stated ability to meet high-volume  capacity of qualified packaged devices and its growing market share. It  also marks a more than 3x increase in units shipped in second-half 2021 over  first-half 2021. Highlighting the continued expansion of Transphorm’s ecosystem,  the shipped FETs are for use in 45-300W power adapter and fast-charger  applications manufactured by new and existing customers in the Asia-Pacific  (APAC). Transphorm’s  SuperGaN product family for compact power conversion applications  currently includes three 650V devices: 480mΩ FETs, 300mΩ FETs and  150mΩ FETs. These are offered in standard PQFN 5x6 and 8x8 packages and  meet JEDEC qualification standards at 150°C. Compared with  alternative GaN semiconductors (i.e. e-mode and IC GaN), advantages of the  SuperGaN devices are said to include: “We’re thrilled to have partnered with our suppliers and customers  to hit our targeted volume manufacturing goal of 1 million units per  month. It demonstrates our rising market share in the rapidly growing  fast-charger and power adapter segment as well as our ability to reproduce  high-performance, high-reliability GaN devices at scale,” says president &  co-founder Primit Parikh. “Transphorm’s traction in both lower-power and  multi-kilowatt high-power applications underscores the leadership of our  technology,” he reckons. “This, combined with recent capital raises of more  than $45m last quarter, supports strong, positive momentum for our continued  expansion and growth in 2022.” Transphorm says that the technical advantages of its product  portfolio – which currently includes 650V and 900V devices in various packages –  are largely driven by the firm’s vertical integration. Uncommon in the GaN  industry, this operation model allows Transphorm to control its devices’  design, epitaxial wafer, and manufacturing process. As a result, the firm  now claims that it supports the largest range of power conversion  requirements (45W to 10+kW) across the widest range of power applications  (power adapters, data-center and gaming PSUs, crypto-mining rigs,  automotive converters, inverters for renewables, and others). 