AXT applies for IPO of subsidiary Tongmei on Shanghai’s STAR Market AXT Inc of Fremont, CA, USA – which makes gallium arsenide (GaAs),  indium phosphide (InP) and germanium (Ge) substrates and raw materials  – says that its formal  application to list shares of its Beijing-based Tongmei Xtal Technology Co Ltd wafer manufacturing subsidiary in an  initial public offering (IPO) on the Sci-Tech innovAtion boaRd (STAR  Market) has been accepted for review by the Shanghai Stock Exchange. AXT’s  strategic plan to access China’s capital markets and progress to an IPO by  Tongmei on the STAR Market was originally announced on 16 November 2020. “This is a  significant achievement and an important milestone for AXT,” believes CEO  Morris Young. “We founded Tongmei back in 1998. Since then, it has grown into a  company that is engaged in the research, development, production and sale of  InP substrates, GaAs substrates, germanium substrates, pBN [pyrolytic boron nitride] and other high-purity  materials, which we believe makes it an attractive offering on the STAR Market.  With success in our addressed markets, strong customer traction, and a number  of new applications coming to market this year and beyond, we have significant  momentum building in our business,” he adds. “If completed,  the IPO will provide proceeds that will be invested in Tongmei to enable us to  expand capacity to capture high-volume opportunities across our portfolio and  develop new products to drive incremental growth and value from market  expansion in 5G, data-center expansion, telecommunications modernization,  healthcare monitoring, micro-LEDs, and more.” The process of  going public on the STAR Market includes several periods of review and,  therefore, is a lengthy process. Tongmei does not expect to complete the IPO  until second-half 2022. The listing of Tongmei on the STAR Market will not  change the status of AXT as a US public company. Also, AXT is  increasing its fourth-quarter 2021 revenue guidance from $34–$36m (provided on  27 October) to $36–$37m, reflecting continued momentum in demand for AXT’s  products as well as growth in the applications that utilize its substrates. AXT  will announce its results for fourth-quarter 2021 and full-year 2021 on  16 February. “Our expected  growth in what is typically a seasonally down quarter for AXT signifies the  expanding opportunities we continue to see across our portfolio,” notes Young.  “Over the past several years, we have laid considerable groundwork to optimize  our business to capture these opportunities, and we are pleased to see our  efforts bearing fruit.” 