Iowa State names Liang Dong as Microelectronics Research Center’s new director Liang Dong, Vikram L. Dalal  Professor in Electrical and Computer Engineering, has been named director of Iowa  State University’s Microelectronics Research Center (MRC). The MRC is a multi-disciplinary center focusing on the study of  semiconductor materials, devices and applications. The research conducted spans  areas including photovoltaics, organic electronics, photonic bandgap  structures, III-V semiconductors, nanomaterials, energy devices, sensors,  microelectromechanical systems (MEMS) and biochips. Dong replaces long-time MRC director Vikram L. Dalal,  Anson Marston Distinguished Professor of Engineering, who is stepping down  after leading the MRC for 22 years.  Picture:   Liang Dong  (right), new director of Iowa  State University’s Microelectronics Research Center, replacing  Vik Dalal (left) who has stepped down after leading the MRC for 22 years. “The MRC will be in extremely capable hands with Liang, who is a  talented innovator and leader,” comments Dalal. “Liang will connect the right  researchers to the right engineering questions to make major strides in  microtechnologies,” he believes. “Liang is an outstanding microelectronics researcher, a  collaborative colleague, and experienced associate director of the MRC,”  comments Arun Somani,  senior associate dean, Anson Marston Distinguished Professor of  Engineering, and the Philip and Virginia Sproul Professor in  Electrical and Computer Engineering. “The MRC has made many key discoveries and  advancements under Vik’s leadership, and we look forward to future  accomplishments with Liang at the helm.” Dong’s core research areas are agricultural, biomedical and  physical sensors, microelectromechanical systems, and biochips. He is a faculty  scholar with the ISU Plant Sciences Institute. He currently serves as  editor-in-chief of the journal ‘Sensors and Actuators A: Physical’. Dong has received many research awards, including a US National  Science Foundation (NSF) CAREER award, and he has  been a plenary or keynote speaker at major conferences in agriculture, biochips  and sensors. Dong has been at Iowa State since 2007 and he is co-founder of  EnGeniousAg, based in Ames, IA, USA. His appointment to MRC director has been  effective since 1 December. “In the next several years, we will be working on making the MRC a  premier multi-disciplinary center that innovates smart materials, devices and  systems at the micro- and nano-scale,” states Dong. “The goal is to not only  provide micro/nanofabrication capacity and expertise to academia and industry  but also advance cutting-edge research in micro and nano technologies,” he  adds. “Recent advances in micro- and nano-electronics along with  innovations in sensor technologies has opened a vast array of research and  development opportunities,” says Ashfaq Khokhar,  the Palmer Department Chair in Electrical and Computer Engineering. “Vik  has done an exceptional job fostering key discoveries during his time as MRC  director. Liang has the ideal set of expertise to build on Vik’s successes and  lead the MRC.” 