Navitas and Powerland partner on thinnest, lightest 50W GaNFast charger Gallium nitride (GaN) power integrated circuit firm Navitas Semiconductor  of El Segundo, CA, USA and Dublin, Ireland says that its GaNFast gallium nitride  (GaN) ICs are powering OPPO’s new 50W ultra-thin and ultra-fast ‘League of Legions’  limited-edition fast charger. This  ‘collectable’ version of OPPO’s ‘cookie’ charger has a thin and light body and  a ‘lanyard’ charging cable. GaN runs up to  20x faster than silicon and enables up to 3x more power, 40% energy savings and  3x faster charging in half the size and weight, says Navitas. GaNFast power ICs  integrate GaN power and drive plus protection and control to deliver simple,  small, fast and efficient performance, the firm says. Over 30 million  GaNFast power ICs have been shipped with zero reported field failures. The OPPO  cookie charger uses two 2MHz-rated NV6115 GaNFast ICs in an active-clamp  flyback (ACF) architecture with zero-voltage and zero-current switching for the  highest efficiency. The low-profile form-factor is achieved using a  high-frequency planar transformer. At only 82mm x 39mm x 10.5mm  (33cc) in size and weighing just 55g, the OPPO cookie is claimed to be the  thinnest, lightest 50W fast-charger. “GaN is now  once again integrated into this charger that has attracted much attention from  mobile game fans. This charger brings consumers a light and fast charging  experience,” says OPPO’s chief charging technology scientist Jeff Zhang. The ‘cookie’  charger was designed by Powerland Technology. “Powerland has always insisted on  integrating excellent innovative technology like GaNFast power ICs with  rich product-development experience, design and production,” says the firm’s co-founder  Dr Qiu Yang. “The 50W ‘cookie’ charger is the crystallization of our  continuous innovation. We look forward to continuing our cooperation with OPPO  and Navitas Semiconductor,” he adds. “Our joint  goal is to continue to explore gallium nitride’s charging potential, to  create smaller, lighter, greener and more convenient charging,” states Charles  (Yingjie) Zha, VP & general manager of Navitas China. 