GaN Systems releases GeN2 Class-D audio amplifier and companion SMPS reference design As gallium nitride (GaN) is being embraced in audio (enabling  companies to launch better sounding, higher-performance, smaller and more  eye-catching audio systems), GaN Systems Inc of Ottawa, Ontario, Canada (a  fabless developer of GaN-based power switching semiconductors for power  conversion and control applications) says that it is making it easier to reap the benefits of GaN with  the introduction of the GeN2 amplifier and companion switched-mode power supply (SMPS) reference design. The solution is optimized for  sound quality, thermal performance, size and cost. The evaluation kit includes  a 2-channel, 200W per channel (8Ω)  Class-D audio amplifier with 96% efficiency and companion  400W continuous, 550W peak power audio-grade SMPS. It  enables audio design engineers to create premium audio products more quickly,  reducing time to market and at affordable prices, says the firm. 
  The GeN2 reference design features a 20%  overall size reduction in the power supply. It has a higher level of protection  into lower impedance loads to the amplifier and provides better thermal  management, resulting in 10°C temperature reduction. In addition to these  improvements, GeN2 also lowers bill-of-materials  (BoM) cost.  As entertainment, music, and information have  become a more significant part of all aspects of our lives, and with audio  consumption at an all-time high, high-quality audio is now a ‘must-have’ across  all audio segments, says GaN Systems. Class-D audio systems with GaN technology provide better sound  quality and are smaller and lighter, the firm adds. The GeN2 reference design allows design  engineers to develop a heatsink-less, self-powered (from AC line input) design  with no external DC supplies required and  smaller-size boards due to a high level of controller and DSP integration. The reference design offers high efficiency  across a wide load range using GaN transistors and  advanced control techniques. Designers can quickly scale to a higher power with  magnetics and GaN transistor selection. Additionally, the solution highlights an easy  plug-and-play design with features such as multi-audio signal inputs,  bridge-tied load (BTL) output, and open-loop/closed-loop toggling. Since announcing its best-performance Class-D  amplifier and companion SMPS kit in May 2020, GaN Systems’ transistors have been implemented in several  high-performance audio solutions, including the Syng Alpha Cell speaker (which was named one of TIME’s  ‘100 Best Inventions of 2021’) and in Orchard  Audio’s Starkrimson Stereo Ultra  amplifier and all-in-one Starkrimson Streamer Ultra. GaN Systems says that its power transistors  are key components of next-generation audio products. While 2021 marked a year  where GaN was embraced in the industry, 2022 is anticipated to be even better.  The firm predicts exponential growth of GaN in the Class-D audio market, and  2022 will mark a year when the biggest audio names will launch GaN audio  products, it adds. 