GaN Systems and Axign unveil 500W heatsinkless Class-D audio amplifier at CES GaN Systems Inc of Ottawa, Ontario, Canada (a fabless developer of  gallium nitride-based power switching semiconductors for power  conversion and control applications) and  fabless semiconductor company Axign of Enschede, The  Netherlands (which provides  analog/mixed-signal technology and ICs for audio amplifier systems) have  debuted a new GaN-based 500W Class-D audio amplifier. The reference design  merges technologies including GaN Systems’ GaN power transistors and Axign’s  Class-D controller, enabling companies to create unique audio systems that are said  to be smaller, sleeker, more efficient, more powerful, and provide better audio  quality than previous generations.  Both firms are showcasing  the demo board at CES. Under Axign’s theme of ‘Listening to the Sound of  Innovation’, this solution signals the next leap in efficiency and sound  quality performance as audio needs have evolved. The design is suitable for  consumer and automotive audio applications, including active loudspeakers,  television soundbars, audio entertainment solutions, and streaming audio  amplifier solutions. Key features  of the 500W Class-D audio amplifier reference design include: In addition to  the key features, the solution is hi-res audio compatible. The 500W Class-D audio amplifier reference design  solves several technical challenges, especially heat generation in high-power  audio amplifiers and efficiency. GaN Systems  says that designers will be able to: “GaN-based audio  amplifiers and accompanying power supplies are becoming the standard in audio  systems, expanding possibilities in design and performance,” says Paul Wiener,  GaN Systems’ VP of strategic marketing. “This collaboration with Axign for the  500W Class-D audio amplifier encapsulates this evolution, allowing the delivery  of smaller, lighter and better sounding  audio systems,” he adds. “Getting amazing sound  quality and full control over the loudspeaker are just one of the many benefits  of our 500W heatsinkless Class-D audio amplifier with GaN Systems,” comments Richard  Langezaal, Axign’s VP of business development. At CES 2022,  GaN Systems is  demonstrating the latest designs and products in power supply, wireless power, audio and automotive solutions at  Tech East, Renaissance Hospitality Suites (next to the Las Vegas Convention Center) at Suite 1232. 