OIF adopts CMIS work initiated by QSFP-DD MSA The Optical Internetworking Forum (OIF) says it is expanding its role in driving industry  interoperability through the addition of the Common Management Interface Specification (CMIS) work  initiated by the Quad Small Form Factor Pluggable Double Density (QSFP-DD) Multi Source Agreement  (MSA). CMIS may be used by pluggable or on-board modules, such as QSFP  Double Density (QSFP-DD), OSFP,  COBO, QSFP, and future module developments like co-packaged optics with  host-to-module management communication based on a two-wire interface. This  specification is targeted at systems manufacturers, system integrators and  suppliers of CMIS-compliant optical and copper modules. “The QSFP-DD MSA initiated the CMIS effort to address an industry  need for commonality in managing pluggable modules, and it has been broadly and  successfully adopted across the industry,” says Cisco’s Mark Nowell, QSFP-DD  MSA Group founding member and MSA  co-chair. “OIF is very well suited to maintain and extend the development of  this effort and I look forward to seeing their progress,” he adds. “Adopting CMIS from the QSFP-DD MSA, with the goal to build on and  extend the specification, is an ideal expansion of OIF’s work,” says TE Connectivity’s Nathan Tracy, OIF’s VP of  marketing. “OIF is where the cloud gets its work done, and extending CMIS is a  giant step forward and an integral linkage to the other work that OIF members  are doing to enable an interoperable ecosystem.” In August, OIF announced the new Physical & Link Layer (PLL)  Working Group Management track to  include the transition of ownership and maintenance of CMIS from the QSFP-DD  MSA to OIF and a project to focus on CMIS extensions for co-packaging  implementations. OIF will take over the ongoing CMIS revisions and further  enhancements and CMIS extensions under this track. This track is  co-vice-chaired by Cisco’s Gary Nicholl and Ciena’s Ian Alderdice. “OIF’s value to the industry is deep, as proven by the industry’s  support and endorsement of this transfer of the CMIS work to OIF,” comments  Tracy. The current CMIS and prior revisions (from QSFP-DD MSA) are now  available to members on the OIF website. 