Hesai and Lumentum partner on LiDAR for automotive applications Light  detection and ranging (LiDAR) sensor manufacturer Hesai Technology of Shanghai,  China and Lumentum Holdings Inc of San Jose, CA,  USA – which provides  vertical-cavity surface-emitting laser (VCSEL) arrays for 3D sensing and  other applications – have partnered on hybrid solid-state directional LiDAR solutions for advanced driver-assistance  systems (ADAS). LiDAR sensors  are an essential part of autonomous vehicles (AVs), but conventional LiDAR  approaches have been challenged by high costs and poor manufacturability.  Incorporating VCSEL array light sources can significantly improve LiDAR  cost competitiveness and scalability. “As the  automotive industry transitions from the testing phase for AVs to  mass-volume-production phase for ADAS applications, cost and manufacturability  are the biggest challenges the industry faces,” says Hesai’s co-founder &  CEO Dr David Li. “We are pleased to be collaborating with Lumentum on our  hybrid solid-state LiDAR AT128 for ADAS applications, which contains an  all-VCSEL-based design to achieve high-affordability, and automotive-grade  reliability and consistency requirements,” he adds. Hesai’s AT128  is a hybrid solid-state directional LiDAR that features a 200m range at 10%  reflectivity, high point density (>1.5m points per second), and small  form factor. Each AT128 incorporates 128 of Lumentum’s high-power multi-junction  VCSEL arrays emitting at 905nm. The multi-junction VCSEL arrays are built on  the manufacturing foundation developed over the past several years of  high-volume VCSEL array shipments serving the consumer electronics  market. “We are  excited to leverage our leading-edge multi-junction VCSEL array capabilities  and manufacturing scale in working with Hesai to help enable innovative,  cost-effective and high-volume LiDAR solutions,” says Lumentum’s president  & CEO Alan Lowe. Over the past  few years, more than a billion Lumentum VCSEL arrays have been deployed in  mobile, consumer electronics, industrial and other applications, creating  significant manufacturing economies of scale. At the same time, Lumentum’s  advances in VCSEL array technology have resulted in what is claimed to be  record peak optical power densities and efficiencies, making the firm’s VCSEL  arrays suitable for high-performance ADAS and AV applications. High-volume  shipments of the AT128 into multiple existing ADAS OEM design-wins are expected  to begin in 2022. 