Sheffield-led project developing micro laser diode technology for micro-display and VLC devices In collaboration with Harvard University and Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in the USA and the  universities Strathclyde and Bath in the UK, a newly funded £1.9m project led  by professor Tao Wang of the University of Sheffield’s Department  of Electronic and Electrical Engineering in the UK aims to develop novel  epitaxy technology to integrate micro laser diodes (micro-LDs) and transistors  on a single chip for use in micro-display and visible light communication (VLC)  devices. Micro-displays are used in smartphones, smartwatches, augmented reality  (AR) and virtual reality (VR) devices. VLC technology has the potential to  offer much greater bandwidth and efficiency than WiFi or 5G and can be used  where radio frequency emissions are controlled or do not work, such as in  aircraft, hospitals, underwater and hazardous environments. A key component of both these technologies are III-nitride visible  light-emitting diodes (LEDs), but using laser diodes (LDs) instead  has the potential to achieve devices with even higher resolution, speed and  efficiency. Funded by the UK’s Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council  (EPSRC), the £1.9m Sheffield-led project is developing a new way of integrating  microscale semiconductor light sources and transistors on a single chip. “The significantly increasing demands on micro-displays are  pushing the requirements for ultra-high resolution and ultra-high efficiency,”  notes Tao Wang, Professor in  Advanced Opto-Electronics at the University of Sheffield.  “Several fundamental challenges with fabrication and electrical driving methods  cannot be met by existing technologies, therefore a disruptive technology needs  to be developed,” he adds. “Unlike any existing photonics and electronics  fabrication approaches, our research will explore a completely different  approach to monolithically integrate microscale laser diodes (μLDs) and  high-electron-mobility transistors (HEMTs) on a single chip, where each  μLD is electrically driven by individual HEMTs.” The global micro-display market is predicted to reach $4.2bn by  2025 and the visible light communication market is expected to exceed $8bn by  2030. The Sheffield-led project is already being supported by global tech  companies such as Microsoft, Sony and Plessey. 