US Investors Fear China Backlash Over Biden’s Tech Curbs One fund chief said China could restrict exports of rare earths used in consumer electronics and EVs vehicles, and target US technology companies One fund chief said China could restrict exports of rare earths used in consumer electronics and EVs vehicles, and target US technology companies  US investors say they are worried Beijing will retaliate or pull back from buying American technology, after President Joe Biden banned some US technology investments in China. Biden this week issued an executive order barring some new US investments in China in sensitive technologies including computer chips, while regulating others. The aim, says Washington, is to protect national security and prevent US capital and expertise from aiding China’s military modernisation.  Also on AF: China’s $13tn Provincial Debt Crisis Threatens to Spill Over  US investors were unfazed by the initial news, saying that the restrictions were more limited than feared and unlikely to extend to passive investments in public Chinese stocks. But several portfolio managers say the bigger worry is whether China will strike back, as it has in the past. “Much depends on how China decides to react to that. The very significant technology war between the countries is a big negative and the administration seemed to be trying to make that announcement without making too many waves with China,” said Rick Meckler, partner at Cherry Lane Investments in New Jersey. The iShares MSCI China Exchange Traded Fund, one of the largest ETFs of US-listed China-based companies, finished up 0.7% on Thursday, while the rest of Wall Street finished flat. In response to Biden’s executive order, China’s commerce ministry said it was “gravely concerned” and reserved the right to take counter-measures. Some China analysts said Beijing’s options are limited and would unlikely escalate the matter. Others, though, thought that view was too optimistic. China in May targeted US chip maker Micron Technology after Washington imposed a series of export controls on American components and chipmaker tools to China, and the US has accused Beijing of penalising other US companies amid growing tensions between the two global economic powerhouses. “It is naive to think that there won’t be some type of retaliation from China,” said Tom Plumb, CEO of mutual fund Plumb Funds. China could restrict exports of rare earths used in consumer electronics, electric vehicles, and other components, or target other US technology companies, Plumb said. China hawks in Washington say American investors have transferred capital and valuable know-how to Chinese technology companies that could help advance Beijing’s military capabilities.  Beijing, for its part, has been seeking self-sufficiency in the intensifying tech disputes, which could also stem the flow of capital into US companies and markets. “This is obviously going to put China in a position where they’re going to try to reduce their dependency on any US company for higher levels of technology,” said Plumb. US private equity and venture capital investors, which have already pulled back from China, are likely to sit on the sidelines while they await more clarity on how the rules will be implemented, it was reported. Some portfolio investors are also reducing their exposure to China. Michael Ashley Schulman, chief investment officer at Running Point Capital Advisors, said some clients had already asked for reduced or zero China exposure via stocks, bonds and ETFs. “After the government’s announcement, I suspect that we may receive a few more similar requests,” he said. Phillip Wool, a co-portfolio manager of Rayliant Quantamental China Equity ETF, said US-China tensions were causing investors to miss out on China growth. “The bigger risk for investors is not allocating to a market where valuations are so low – relative to other equity markets and China’s own history – and where there are plenty of companies with strong fundamentals undergoing rapid growth.”   Read more: China ‘Strongly Dissatisfied’ at US Ban on Tech Investment Chinese Tech Giants Rush to Buy Nvidia’s Top AI Chips – FT US Set to Outline Ban on Sensitive Tech Investment in China China’s Trade to the US and EU Sank Further in July, Data Shows US Seen Clamping Down on Investment in China Funds   