North America Semiconductor Conference Meets in Washington to Advance Ambitious Plan to Rebalance Supply Chain by Rina Pal-Goetzen, Director of Global PolicySIA and Arizona State University this week hosted the first North America Semiconductor Conference (NASC), a new trilateral endeavor between the governments, academic institutions, and private sectors of Mexico, Canada, and the United States. NASC aims to create a contiguous region of semiconductor development and production in North America and to leverage existing strengths of the three countries to work toward an integrated ecosystem that can better compete globally. SIA CEO John Neuffer moderated NASC’s trilateral semiconductor forum that took place today in Washington.NASC was launched during a January meeting between Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, Mexican President Lopez-Obrador, and U.S. President Joe Biden, with the goal of advancing government policies and increasing investment to strengthen regional semiconductor supply chains. The inaugural meeting this week focused on aligning industrial policy on semiconductors, expanding the North American semiconductor footprint, strengthening the semiconductor supply chain, and growing the semiconductor workforce across North America.NASC is part of a major, multifaceted effort to rebalance and rebuild semiconductor supply chains in the Western Hemisphere. Core to this effort is the $52 billion CHIPS and Science Act, a landmark law enacted last year to incentivize U.S.-based chip production and innovation. Since it was introduced in Congress, CHIPS has already spurred more than $210 billion in new company investment commitments. While CHIPS is a massive step forward, it is not intended to be a ticket to semiconductor self-sufficiency, so it remains critical for the U.S. to work closely with partners and allies to strengthen global semiconductor supply-chain resiliency.One of the key drivers behind the launch of NASC was the pandemic-induced global semiconductor shortage, which hit many industries hard. The shortage led to a significant shift in government and industry focus towards building more resilient supply chains. By building up the semiconductor industry within North America, the region can improve the resilience of its technology supply chains by having a greater share of the value-chain located within the region.Each country already brings to the table significant strengths:The goal of NASC is to coordinate efforts across the region. We believe NASC should focus on four major areas:NASC holds great promise as a critical platform to help rebalance the global semiconductor supply chain and bring more manufacturing, assembly, test, packaging, and design to the North America region. SIA looks forward to playing a collaborative role as this important new effort progresses in the months and years ahead.