Apple Supplier Foxconn Speeds up India Expansion in China Shift Foxconn chief met Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi this week ‘to build an ecosystem allowing all stakeholders to share, collaborate and thrive’ Foxconn chief met Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi this week ‘to build an ecosystem allowing all stakeholders to share, collaborate and thrive’  Foxconn chairman Young Liu visited multiple Indian states this week in the Taiwanese electronics giant’s efforts to boost operations outside of China. On Friday, Liu visited the city of Bengaluru in the southern Indian state of Karnataka where the Apple supplier has been allotted a 300-acre campus, the Press Trust of India reported. The facility will be used to produce Apple iPhones, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said in a tweet on Friday. It will also create 100,000 jobs, he added.   Liu is heading a 17-member team to the city, which met top Indian officials in capital New Delhi on Wednesday, the Economic Times reported. The Foxconn team said it aims to “make semiconductors a success in the country,” the report added. The Foxconn chief also met Indian prime minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday. “Foxconn will continue to build an ecosystem in India allowing all our stakeholders to share, collaborate and thrive,” the Apple supplier posted on its official Twitter account.  Chairman Young Liu is visiting India. Today we had a warm meeting with Honourable Prime Minister @narendramodi and updated him on our good progress in the country. Foxconn will continue to build an ecosystem in India allowing all our stakeholders to share, collaborate and thrive. pic.twitter.com/We86Gd9iXI — Hon Hai Technology Group (Foxconn) (@HonHai_Foxconn) February 28, 2023   “Our discussions covered various topics aimed at enhancing India’s tech and innovation eco-system,” the prime minister’s official Twitter account posted in response. Liu’s visit to Karnataka comes on the back of ongoing talks between the state and the world’s largest contract electronics manufacturer. Earlier this month, Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai visited the Taiwan headquarters of Foxconn, formally called Hon Hai Precision Industry Co Ltd. “We are in serious discussion of investment plans… and look forward to a fruitful collaboration,” Bommai said in a tweet after the meeting.  Foxconn will also invest an undisclosed sum in India’s southern state of Telangana towards an electronics manufacturing facility, the state’s chief minister said on Thursday. The ‘historic’ investment will create 100,000 jobs in the state, Telangana’s IT minister KT Rama Rao said. The announcement followed a meeting between Telangana’s chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao and Foxconn chairman Young Liu earlier in the day.  During his meeting with Chief Minister Sri K. Chandrashekar Rao, @HonHai_Foxconn Chairman, Mr. Young Liu has announced the company’s decision to set up electronics manufacturing facilities in Hyderabad. pic.twitter.com/Epmox5pgfg — Telangana CMO (@TelanganaCMO) March 2, 2023   Rao and Liu discussed the importance of diversifying electronics manufacturing for a resilient supply chain, according to tweets by the chief minister’s office. Liu said that he was “optimistic about the investments of his company in the state,” the office said. Taiwan-based Foxconn already has operations in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, where it manufactures products for companies such as Apple and Amazon.    