Mary Thornton Joins SIA as Vice President of Global Policy by Semiconductor Industry AssociationWASHINGTON—Nov. 2, 2023—The Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA) today announced Mary Thornton has joined the association as vice president of global policy. In this role, Thornton will lead SIA’s global policy team and direct the association’s global trade and economic security policy initiatives, among other issue areas. SIA represents 99% of the U.S. semiconductor industry by revenue and nearly two-thirds of non-U.S. chip firms.“Semiconductors are at the heart of the global policy landscape, and it’s never been more critical for leaders in Washington and capitals around the world to enact policies that allow the chip industry to continue to grow and innovate,” said John Neuffer, SIA president and CEO. “With extensive knowledge and experience at the intersection of global trade and technology policy, Mary Thornton will be an outstanding advocate for initiatives that will strengthen our industry. We’re excited to welcome her to the SIA team.”Thornton most recently served as head of trade and export controls policy at Amazon Web Services (AWS), and previously led global trade and export controls policy at Texas Instruments Incorporated, a leading designer and manufacturer of advanced semiconductor products. Thornton served as a senior trade negotiator for the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) from 2008-2018, representing the United States at the U.S. Mission to the World Trade Organization (WTO) in Switzerland. She successfully negotiated the expansion of the Information Technology Agreement at the WTO, which eliminated customs duties on hundreds of technology products across 80+ countries, and worked extensively to expand access and create export opportunities for U.S. companies in foreign markets through both various bilateral and multilateral fora. Thornton also served at the U.S. Departments of Commerce and Treasury.Thornton earned a master’s degree in public policy from the University of Michigan and a bachelor’s degree in political science and mathematics from Colgate University.# # #About SIA
The Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA) is the voice of the semiconductor industry, one of America’s top export industries and a key driver of America’s economic strength, national security, and global competitiveness. SIA represents 99% of the U.S. semiconductor industry by revenue and nearly two-thirds of non-U.S. chip firms. Through this coalition, SIA seeks to strengthen leadership of semiconductor manufacturing, design, and research by working with Congress, the Administration, and key industry stakeholders around the world to encourage policies that fuel innovation, propel business, and drive international competition. Learn more at www.semiconductors.org.