China’s Lenovo to Buy $614m Stake in Digital Units of HK’s PCCW The world’s largest maker of personal computers said it will acquire an 80% stake in Digital Era Enterprises and a 20% stake in PCCW Network Services, a holding company The world’s largest maker of personal computers said it will acquire an 80% stake in Digital Era Enterprises and a 20% stake in PCCW Network Services, a holding company  China’s Lenovo plans to buy stakes worth $614 million in two digital subsidiaries of Hong Kong telecoms firm PCCW, aiming to tap growing demand for IT services as most offices adopt a hybrid work model in a post-Covid world. The world’s largest maker of personal computers said in a statement that it will acquire an 80% stake in Digital Era Enterprises and a 20% stake in PCCW Network Services, a holding firm for a unit that offers tech solutions to the Hong Kong government. The deals would diversify its businesses and were important for the company’s long-term development, Lenovo said. “The transaction allows the company to expand its IT services capabilities, its suite of service offerings as well as the geographic and vertical coverage of customers and partners,” it said. Lenovo, which last month warned of a hit to shipments in the short term due to China’s Covid lockdowns exacerbating chip shortages, will pay PCCW $513.6 million in cash and issue 86.4 million new shares, or a 0.71% stake, at HK$9.025 each. PCCW, controlled by Hong Kong tycoon Richard Li, anticipates a gain of $100 million from the sale, it said in a separate filing, adding it will use the proceeds to invest in growth areas and to repay debt, among others. Shares of Lenovo slipped as much as 2.6% on Wednesday to HK$7.37, while PCCW gained 2.4% in its best day since March 16. That compared with a 1% gain in the broader market. Last month, Lenovo posted an 18% jump in revenue to $71.6 billion for the fiscal year ended in March. Its Infrastructure Solutions Group business saw a 13% growth in revenue to $7.1 billion and its newly formed Solutions and Services Group (SSG) saw a 30% growth to $5.4 billion. Lenovo said SSG, which benefits from growing IT services demand, is the key to driving sustainable growth for the company.         