Ford CEO Jim Farley Will Be Keynote Presenter at 2022 SIA Awards Dinner by Semiconductor Industry AssociationFarley to offer perspectives on future of automotive innovation at Nov. 17 event in San Jose WASHINGTON—Aug. 15, 2022—The Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA) today announced Jim Farley, president and CEO of Ford Motor Company, will be the keynote presenter at the 2022 SIA Awards Dinner on Thursday, Nov. 17 in San Jose, Calif. Farley will offer insights on the role of semiconductors in enabling the future of automotive technology. SIA represents 99 percent of the U.S. semiconductor industry by revenue and nearly two-thirds of non-U.S. chip firms.“With extensive experience propelling advances in automotive innovation at the highest levels of the industry, Jim Farley is a leading authority on the critical role of semiconductors in unleashing the cars of the future,” said John Neuffer, SIA president and CEO. “We are thrilled to welcome him as the keynote presenter at our 2022 SIA Awards Dinner and look forward to hearing his insights on the trends driving automotive technology.”Farley became president and CEO of Ford in October 2020, and in March 2022 took on the additional role of president of Ford Model e. In addition, Farley is a member of the company’s board of directors. As CEO, Farley is focused on deployment of the ambitious, customer-focused Ford+ plan for growth and value creation. Primary elements of the plan include innovation and delivery of breakthrough electric vehicles at scale, along with development of software and connected vehicle technologies and services for the Ford Model e business unit. Before becoming CEO, Farley was Ford’s chief operating officer, president of New Businesses, Technology and Strategy, and Ford’s executive vice president and president of Global Markets.Before joining Ford in November 2007, Farley was group vice president and general manager of Lexus, and earlier, the group vice president responsible for all Toyota Division market planning, advertising, merchandising, sales promotion, incentives, and internet activities. Farley joined Toyota in 1990 in the strategic planning department and served in several product and marketing positions in the United States and Europe. Farley attended Georgetown University in Washington, D.C., where he earned a bachelor’s degree in economics, and the University of California, Los Angeles, where he was graduated from the Anderson School of Management with a degree in management.The 2022 SIA Awards Dinner also will feature the presentation of the semiconductor industry’s highest honor, the Robert N. Noyce Award, to Lip-Bu Tan, executive chairman of Cadence Design Systems and chairman of Walden International. The Noyce Award is named in honor of semiconductor industry pioneer Robert N. Noyce, co-founder of Fairchild Semiconductor and Intel.# # #