Taiwan Says Ukraine Won’t Seriously Impact Chip Supply Chain Taipei has moved reassure manufacturing chiefs that its semiconductor production lines won’t be affected by Russia’s invasion of Ukraine Taipei has moved reassure manufacturing chiefs that its semiconductor production lines won’t be affected by Russia’s invasion of Ukraine  Taiwan’s government said on Saturday the war in Ukraine will have little impact on the supply of key raw materials for semiconductors. Taiwan is a major chip manufacturer, home to the world’s largest contract chip maker and Asia’s most valuable listed company, TSMC, and key to alleviating a global shortage of semiconductors which have in some cases forced auto production lines to shutter. The cabinet, following a meeting chaired by Vice Premier Shen Jong-chin, said three key raw materials for making chips – the gases neon and C4F6 as well as the metal palladium – would not be seriously impacted. Russia produces neon, C4F6 and palladium.  Also on AF: China’s Didi Performs U-Turn On Russia Exit Decision  Taiwanese chip makers use little palladium, and neither Ukraine nor Russia is a major source for that which the island does use, the cabinet said in a statement. Domestic companies also have the ability to refine and “remanufacture” palladium, so there should be no impact, it said. For neon and C4F6, there are already stocks on the island and supply chains are diversified, so “the near term impact is not big,” the Cabinet said. Taiwan’s energy supplies are also secure, with 145 days of oil reserves and diversified supply sources, while for liquefied natural gas, or LNG, there are also diverse supply sources, it said. Taiwan’s government announced on Friday it would place sanctions on Russia for its invasion of Ukraine, though it has given no details and the island’s exports to the country are minimal. On the financial markets, the cabinet said the Taiwan dollar’s exchange rate was relatively stable but that the central bank would keep a close watch and take “appropriate management measures” if needed. The finance ministry will also act to stabilise the stock market if necessary, the cabinet said.   Read more: Sanctions On Russia Remind China Over Its Need For Chips China Invasion Risk Sees Taiwan’s TSMC Moving Fabs Overseas Taiwan’s UMC To Spend $5bn On New Chip Plant In Singapore  