AMD Buys Xilinx For $49.8bn In Biggest Ever Chip Firms Deal Semiconductor designer Advanced Micro Devices’ purchase of Xilinx comes after Nvidia Corp abandoned plans to buy SoftBank-owned Arm Ltd Semiconductor designer Advanced Micro Devices’ purchase of Xilinx comes after Nvidia Corp abandoned plans to buy SoftBank-owned Arm Ltd  Semiconductor designer Advanced Micro Devices Inc (AMD) revealed on Monday that it has finalised the purchase of Xilinx Inc in the largest chip industry deal ever at $49.8 billion. The closing of the deal comes on the heels of Nvidia Corp abandoning its plans to buy SoftBank-owned Arm Ltd citing regulatory hurdles. AMD’s deal moved ahead with all necessary approvals for the acquisition, it said. Xilinx is an American technology company that primarily supplies programmable logic devices while AMD are based in Santa Clara, California, and develop computer processors and related technologies for business and consumer markets.  Also on AF: Tesla’s China-Made Monthly EV Sales Drop 11,000  The deal, first announced in October 2020, was originally valued at $35 billion, but the rise of AMD stock has pushed up the price tag, according to AMD. The purchase of Xilinx helps AMD “capture a larger share of the approximately $135 billion market opportunity we see across cloud, edge and intelligent devices,” said AMD CEO Lisa Su in a statement. The transaction comes as AMD intensifies its battle with Intel Corp in the data centre chip market. The combined company will have over 15,000 engineers and a completely outsourced manufacturing strategy that relies heavily on Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co Ltd (TSMC). The two US companies have benefited from a more nimble approach to grabbing market share from Intel, which has struggled with internal manufacturing. AMD has long been Intel’s chief rival for central processor units (CPUs) in the personal computer business. AMD’s Su will lead the combined company as chief executive, with Xilinx’s CEO Victor Peng as president of the newly formed Adaptive and Embedded Computing Group. The companies expect the deal to generate $300 million in cost savings.   Read more: Global Chip Sales Top 1 Trillion In 2021 And Set To Go Higher EU Joins Chips Race with $49bn Bid to Rival Asia Taiwan Chip Firm’s Bid To Buy German Rival Collapses  