Stewart Barber, Molly O’Leary Join SIA Government Affairs Team by Semiconductor Industry AssociationBarber most recently served as senior vice president of government affairs at Corley Consulting; O’Leary previously served as director of government affairs at NTCA—The Rural Broadband AssociationWASHINGTON—July 20, 2022—The Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA) today announced Stewart Barber and Molly O’Leary have joined the association as directors of government affairs. Barber and O’Leary will work with Congress, the White House, and federal agencies to advance the industry’s policy priorities. SIA represents 99 percent of the U.S. semiconductor industry by revenue and nearly two-thirds of non-U.S. chip firms.“The policy decisions being made in the U.S. and around the world will have a massive impact on the future of the semiconductor industry, a sector that is central to America’s economy, national security, and global technology leadership,” said John Neuffer, SIA president and CEO. “With extensive experience advancing government policies that promote growth and innovation, Stewart and Molly will be ideal advocates for the semiconductor industry in Washington. We are pleased to welcome them to the SIA team and look forward to their contributions in support of our industry’s priorities.”Barber was most recently senior vice president of government affairs at Corley Consulting, leading congressional engagement on issues such as appropriations, trade, workforce, and supply chain. She also served as executive director for the Task Force on American Innovation (TFAI), executing a comprehensive strategy to secure federal research funding and invest in innovation. Barber previously worked as a White House policy advisor, responsible for developing and implementing key foreign policy initiatives like the Women’s Global Development and Prosperity (W-GDP) Initiative and the Women, Peace, and Security (WPS) Initiative. She has also served in government roles as deputy assistant United States trade representative for intergovernmental and public engagement in the office of the United States Trade Representative and as legislative staff for U.S. Sen. Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.). She received a B.A. in English and Government from Wofford College.Before joining SIA, O’Leary served as director of government affairs at NTCA—The Rural Broadband Association, where she managed winning advocacy campaigns on behalf of NTCA’s 850 rural broadband providers, including work on the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act’s $65 billion investment in broadband programs. During her time at NTCA, she also represented the association’s members in discussions with lead negotiators of legislation on national security and cybersecurity and led strategic advocacy around appropriations, tax policy, and financial services. O’Leary previously served as a policy advisor to U.S. Sen. Tina Smith (D-Minn.) and judiciary and economic policy aide to U.S. Sen. Al Franken (D-Minn.). She received a B.A. in Political Science from the University of Minnesota.# # #