BluGlass acquires contract manufacturer GaNWorks Foundry for US$800,000 BluGlass Ltd  of Silverwater, Australia — which develops and manufactures gallium nitride  (GaN) blue laser diodes based on its proprietary low-temperature, low-hydrogen  remote-plasma chemical vapor deposition (RPCVD) technology — has reached an agreement to acquire its Silicon Valley-based commercial contract manufacturing partner GaNWorks Foundry Inc for US$800,000, comprising 85% in  17,436,556 new BLG ordinary shares (US$680,000) issued from within the firm’s‘s  existing capacity under ASX listing rule 7.1, plus 15% in cash (US$120,000, funded  by the receipt of the firm’s $7.3m R&D rebate). The acquisition  includes core, speciality GaN wafer processing  equipment and processes for n-side metallization, wafer thinning and laser bar  cleave capabilities, which are both critical and complex processes in BluGlass’  laser manufacturing supply chain.  These processes have previously been outsourced to GaNWorks — BluGlass’ only remaining  wafer processing contract  manufacturer. The equipment is expected  to complete installation and process transfer at BluGlass’ Silicon Valley fab by 30 December. GaNWorks will provide transitional engineering  services for 30 days from the  acquisition date to complete process and knowledge transfer to BluGlass, completing  the vertical integration of BluGlass’ laser fabrication facility in Fremont,  CA, USA. In addition, the  transaction includes the transfer of an engineer with more than 10 years’ GaN processing experience to US-based  BluGlass Inc, ensuring complete  knowledge and process transfer. In-sourcing of n-side wafer thinning and laser bar cleave processes will speed development and production  cycles of these steps by over 30% and are expected to deliver annualized  savings of more than US$400,000. Operationally, vertical integration will  further fast-track the firm’s growth strategy, increase laser production  capacity, and accelerate advanced technical roadmaps. “Bringing  GaNWorks in-house is another incredibly rare opportunity. These processes are  critical to our manufacturing supply chain,  with the equipment alone costing on the order of US$3m to purchase new,” says BluGlass’  CEO Jim Haden. “Our acquisition of GaNWorks represents exceptional shareholder  value, providing us with the necessary equipment, along with invaluable  process, knowledge transfer and hands-on expertise. As one of just a handful of  gallium nitride laser diode manufacturers globally, our acquisition  of a specialist GaN contract manufacturer also increases barriers to entry for  new players,” he adds. “The acquisition  represents the final step in our plan to in-source wafer processing, and further accelerates our long-term growth  plans within the fast-growing GaN market, forecast to reach US$2.5bn by 2025,”  Haden continues. “Vertical integration eliminates operational complexity,  reduces process variability, and speeds product development. Dedicated in-house  resources will further improve the quality and consistency of our lasers, while  also enabling us to execute our strategic vision of becoming the industry’s  easiest-to-use laser light, offering  product development and manufacturing flexibility.” 