Sivers, LioniX and Chilas partner to develop narrow-linewidth CW tunable 1310nm lasers for optical communications and sensing IC and integrated module supplier Sivers  Semiconductors AB of Kista, Sweden says that its subsidiary Sivers  Photonics of Glasgow, Scotland, UK has commenced a new  partnership with LioniX International BV (LXI) and Chilas B.V. (both of Enschede, The Netherlands) to develop and supply a narrow-linewidth integrated O-band continuous wave (CW) tunable 1310nm laser targeting high-growth applications across optical communications  and optical sensing sectors. LioniX designs and produces customized integrated  microsystems, specializing in silicon nitride photonic integrated circuits  (PICs) and micro-electro-mechanical systems (MEMS), with expertise spanning  chip fabrication, electro-optical system architecture, and module assembly and  packaging. Lionix has  introduced the laser to meet the growing demand for O-band solutions for use by  OEMs, advanced laboratories, and industrial sensor manufacturers innovating in  the communications (passive optical networks,  fiber-optic communications), LiDAR, and molecular analysis  markets. Sivers Photonics has developed a customized optical amplifier  component on its InP100 product platform to efficiently power this integrated  laser solution and will supply this  part as standard to the LioniX platform. The end-user Chilas will provide  testing services for the assembled photonic integrated circuit, and offer this latest product worldwide as part of  its diverse laser portfolio. “This partnership  with LioniX and Chilas further demonstrates Sivers Photonics’  RSOA gain blocks  being deployed into high-precision laser sources,” says Sivers Photonics’  managing director Andy McKee. “The narrow linewidth  and wide tunability afforded by these external-cavity lasers make them ideal  sources for a broad range of applications including datacoms and optical sensing markets,” he adds. “The two technology  platforms of LioniX International and Sivers complement each other, creating  ultra-narrow-linewidth lasers with unprecedented performance,” says LioniX’s CEO Arne Leinse. “This collaboration  between Sivers, LioniX and the end-user Chilas is a great example of how the  ecosystem can work together to create new applications in this wavelength  domain,” he adds. “Chilas acknowledges  Sivers on their tailored semiconductor manufacturing capabilities, making them  perfectly suitable for hybrid integration,” comments Chilas’ chief technology officer Dimitri Geskus. “This greatly benefits  the development of wavelength-agile laser sources such as the demonstrated O-band tunable laser,” he adds. “Chilas is actively supporting the  joint efforts of Sivers and LioniX International with great enthusiasm, and we  are looking forward in turning the tunable O-band laser into a product.” 