Coherent’s silicon carbide business completes $1bn in investments from DENSO and Mitsubishi Electric Materials, networking and laser technology firm  Coherent Corp of Saxonburg, PA,  USA has  closed the $1bn aggregate investment in its silicon carbide (SiC)  semiconductor business by automotive supplier DENSO Corp of Kariya, Aichi prefecture, Japan and  Tokyo-based Mitsubishi Electric Corp, announced on 10 October. DENSO and Mitsubishi Electric each invested  $500m in exchange for a 12.5% non-controlling ownership stake, with Coherent  owning the remaining 75%. Coherent has separated and contributed the business  to a new subsidiary that will operate it. Going forward, all operating and  capital expenses will be funded by the business. Coherent will control and  operate it, which will continue to be led by Sohail Khan, executive VP,  Wide-Bandgap Electronics. In connection with the transaction, the  business has entered into arm’s-length long-term supply arrangements with DENSO  and Mitsubishi Electric that support their demand for 150mm and 200mm  silicon carbide substrates and epitaxial wafers. “We are excited to expand our strategic  relationships with DENSO and Mitsubishi Electric to capitalize on the  significant demand for silicon carbide,” says Coherent’s chair & CEO Dr Vincent D.  Mattera Jr. “Such a close relationship with two leaders in SiC power devices  and modules is the best path forward to maximize shareholder value and position  the business for long-term growth. The investments from our strategic partners  will be used to accelerate our capacity expansion plans and help sustain our  leadership position, while ensuring the development of a robust and scalable  supply for the rapidly growing market for SiC-based power electronics,  largely driven by the explosive growth of the global electric vehicle  market,” he adds. “Through this strategic relationship with  Coherent, we will secure a stable procurement of SiC wafers, which are critical  for battery electric vehicles, and contribute to the realization of a  carbon-neutral society by promoting the widespread adoption of BEVs in all  regions around the world,” says Shinnosuke Hayashi, president & chief  operating officer, representative member of the board at DENSO. “Going forward, we will further strengthen our  collaboration with Coherent, leveraging their capabilities in development and  manufacturing of SiC substrates, to achieve solid growth of our SiC power device  business and contribute to a more sustainable world through decarbonization,”  says Dr Masayoshi Takemi, executive officer, group president,  Semiconductor & Device, at Mitsubishi Electric. Market estimates indicate that the SiC total  addressable market will grow at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR)  of 28% from $3bn in 2022 to $21bn in 2030. The transaction builds on Coherent’s more than  two decades of expertise in SiC materials. In recent years, the firm has  invested to scale its manufacturing of 150mm and 200mm substrates to address  this underserved market. Over the past two years, Coherent has invested  in capital and R&D for SiC. The closing of this $1bn combined investment  into the business should accelerate the company’s capital plans in the coming  years. Specifically, the investment will fund the manufacturing expansion of  the business and, in combination with the concurrent supply agreements, enhance  its position in the market, it is expected. The transaction enables Coherent to increase  its available free cash flow to provide greater financial and operational  flexibility to execute its capital allocation priorities, as it expects the  aggregate $1bn investment will be used to fund future capital expenditure  requirements of the business. 