ams OSRAM launches multi-LED package that boosts heart rate and blood oxygen measurements for wearables ams OSRAM GmbH of Premstätten, Austria and Munich, Germany has launched a new multi-LED package that offers more than 40% higher radiant intensity than the previous-generation product, resulting in  higher-accuracy PPG (photoplethysmography) measurements in smart watches, wristbands and other wearable devices. The SFH 7018  features a highly reflective QFN (quad flat no leads)  package for significantly increased light output. In addition, an improved  two-cavity design separates the green LED  from the red LED and infrared (IR)  LED: the spacing and optical isolation ensure that the light sources are  optimally placed relative to their photodiodes and reduce interference between  the green light (for heart-rate measurements) and the red light and IR source  (for blood oxygen saturation, or  SpO2, measurements). Furthermore, the green chip does not cause the red and IR  chips to fluoresce due to cross-excitation from the shorter wavelength. The optimized  form factor of the surface-mount QFN  package – just 0.6mm high – makes it easy to integrate the module into any type  of wearable device. Despite its compact size, the SFH 7018 provides dual  driving capability with optimized forward voltage  headroom and reduced overall power consumption. “By using the  new SFH 7018, manufacturers of wearable devices can dramatically improve the  quality of the optical signals on which heart rate  and blood oxygen measurements are  based, making them more accurate and reliable in all operating conditions,”  says senior staff system architect Dr Sergey Kudaev. “The SFH 7018 can help to transform vital signs measurements into accurate and  absolute determinations of heart rate,  blood oxygen levels and even more  advanced parameters, such as blood pressure.” The  SFH 7018’s improvement in radiant intensity is said to be dramatic: the  red and IR LEDs are more than 40% brighter than in the existing SFH 7016, and the green LED in the SFH 7018A version of the product is 80%  brighter, while in the SFH 7018B  version the green LED is more than twice as bright. The brightness of the  SFH 7018 at each of the red, green and IR wavelengths also greatly exceeds  that of today’s best-performing competing product, it is claimed. Since all  vital signs monitoring devices face  the challenge of detecting small modulations in already small light signals,  the result of scattering and absorption in tissue (depending on various  factors), the amount of light emitted by the LEDs strongly affects system performance.  When more light is modulated by the blood flow  and subsequently reaches the photodiode, signal quality  improves, yielding higher accuracy and better repeatability of measurements.  The SFH 7018 enables this superior performance by emitting more light into  the body. The SFH 7018 is available in two versions:  SFH 7018A is optimized for low forward voltage  at high currents, allowing for operation without a costly voltage booster.  SFH 7018B is optimized for maximum radiant intensity. Both variants are in  volume production now. 