TI expands low-power GaN portfolio, allowing AC/DC power adapters to shrink 50% Dallas-based Texas Instruments (TI) has expanded its low-power  gallium nitride (GaN) portfolio, designed to help improve power density,  maximize system efficiency and shrink the size of AC/DC consumer power electronics  and industrial systems. TI's overall portfolio of GaN field-effect transistors  (FETs) with integrated gate drivers addresses common thermal design  challenges, keeping adapters cooler while pushing more power in a smaller  footprint. “Today’s consumers want smaller, lighter and more portable power adapters  that also provide fast, energy-efficient charging,” says Kannan  Soundarapandian, general manager of High Voltage Power at TI.  “With the expansion of our portfolio, designers can bring the power-density  benefits of low-power GaN technology to more applications that consumers use  every day, such as mobile phone and laptop adapters, TV power supply  units, and USB wall outlets,” he adds. “TI's portfolio also addresses the  growing demand for high efficiency and compact designs in industrial systems  such as power tools and server auxiliary power supplies.” The new portfolio of GaN FETs with integrated gate drivers,  which includes the LMG3622, LMG3624 and LMG3626, offers what is claimed to be  the industry's most accurate integrated current sensing. This  functionality helps designers achieve maximum efficiency by eliminating the  need for an external shunt resistor and reducing associated power losses  by as much as 94% compared with traditional current-sensing circuits used with  discrete GaN and silicon FETs. TI says that its GaN FETs with integrated gate drivers enable  faster switching speeds, which helps to prevent adapters from overheating.  Designers can reach up to 94% system efficiency for <75W AC/DC  applications or above 95% system efficiency for >75W AC/DC  applications. The new devices can help designers to reduce the solution size of  a typical 67W power adapter by as much as 50% compared with silicon-based  solutions. The portfolio is also optimized for the most common topologies in  AC/DC power conversion, such as quasi-resonant flyback, asymmetrical  half-bridge flyback, inductor-inductor-converter (LLC), totem-pole power factor  correction (PFC) and active clamp flyback. For more information on the benefits of TI’s GaN for the most  common AC/DC topologies, see the technical article "The benefits of low-power GaN  in common AC/DC power topologies." TI has a long history of globally owned, regionally diverse  internal manufacturing operations, including wafer fabs, assembly &  test factories, and bump and probe facilities across 15 worldwide sites. The  firm has been investing in manufacturing GaN technology for more than 10 years. With plans to manufacture more than 90% of its products internally  by 2030, TI says that it can provide customers with dependable capacity for  decades to come. Production quantities of the LMG3622 and LMG3626 and  pre-production quantities of the LMG3624 are available for purchase now on  TI.com/GaN. Available in an 8mm by 5.3mm, 38-pin quad flat no-lead  package, pricing starts at US$3.18 in 1000-unit  quantities. Evaluation modules, including the LMG3624EVM-081, start at US$250. Pin-to-pin devices without integrated current sensing,  LMG3612 and LMG3616, are also available. 