ROHM launches 120W high-power laser diode for LiDAR ROHM has launched the RLD90QZW8 high-power laser diode, suitable  for industrial equipment and consumer applications requiring distance  measurement and spatial recognition. In recent years, light ranging & detection (LiDAR) has been  increasingly adopted in a wide range of applications that require automation –  including AGVs (automated guided vehicles), robot vacuums and  autonomous vehicles (AVs) – where it is necessary to accurately measure  distance and recognize space. In this context, there is a need to improve the  performance and output of laser diodes when used as light sources to  increase detection distance and accuracy.  Picture: ROHM’s  new high-power 120W laser diode for LiDAR. To meet this demand, ROHM has established original patented  technology to achieve a narrower emission width that contributes to longer  range and higher accuracy in LiDAR applications. In 2019, the firm launched the  25W laser diode RLD90QZW5 followed by the 75W laser diode RLD90QZW3  in 2021. In response to the growing market demand for even higher output, ROHM  developed the new 120W laser diode.  The RLD90QZW8 is a 120W infrared high-output laser diode  developed for LiDAR used in distance measurement and spatial recognition in  three-dimensional time-of-flight (3D ToF) systems. Original device development  technology has allowed ROHM to reduce the temperature dependence of the laser  wavelength by 66% over general products, to just Δ11.6nm (average 0.10nm/°C).  This makes it possible to narrow the bandpass filter while extending the  detection range of LiDAR. At the same time, a uniform light intensity of  97% is achieved over the industry’s smallest class of emission width of 270µm,  representing a range of 264µm that contributes to higher resolution. Additional  features that include high power-to-light conversion efficiency (PCE)  enable efficient optical output that contributes to lower  power consumption in LiDAR applications.  A variety of design support materials necessary for integrating  and evaluating the new product is available free of charge on ROHM’s website  that facilitate market introduction. To drive laser diodes with the high  nanosecond-order speed required for LiDAR applications, ROHM has developed a  reference design available now that combines the fiirm’s 150V EcoGaN HEMT  and gate drivers. A broad range of design data is available on ROHM’s website free  of charge, including simulation (SPICE) models, board development data, and  application notes on drive circuit design necessary for integration and  evaluation that supports quick market introduction.  Picture: Reference designs for LiDAR  incorporating these new products together with ROHM’s 150V EcoGaN and  high-speed gate driver (BD2311NVX series) are available now on ROHM’s website. ROHM has also gained certification under the IATF 16949  automotive quality management standard for both front-end and back-end  processes at its manufacturing facilities. As a result, laser diode  product development for automotive applications (AEC-Q102 compliant) is  underway, with commercialization planned by the end of 2024. 