Spirox and Southport launch first non-destructive SiC defect inspection system Spirox Corp of Hsinchu, Taiwan,  in collaboration with its subsidiary Southport Corp, has jointly launched  the industry-first JadeSiC-NK non-destructive defect inspection system,  which uses non-linear optical technology for whole wafer scanning of SiC  substrates, identifying killer defects within the substrate. By replacing the  existing high-cost, destructive KOH (potassium hydroxide) etching  detection method, it leads to increased production yields and process  improvement. Based on the need to etch two substrates for each SiC ingot,  JadeSiC-NK can save a substrate manufacturer with 100 crystal growth  furnaces about US$7.68m in annual costs incurred due to etching losses, it is  reckoned. SiC crystal growth is slow, and substrate crystal defects  currently can only be inspected by sampling and mathematic interpolation with  the destructive KOH etching method, making the cost of SiC chip  manufacturing processes consistently high. Major SiC substrate  makers worldwide are investing in capacity expansion and process improvement to  increase their market share. If SiC substrate and component manufacturers can  implement comprehensive non-destructive inspection of materials in the  manufacturing process, it will not only reduce the usage of harmful chemical  solutions associated with KOH etching but also allow for the early  detection of defects. This, in turn, enables effective process improvement and  enhances yield. Existing optical technologies on the market can only detect  surface non-crystalline defects, notes Southport’s general manager  Jay Wang. However,  JadeSiC-NK utilizes non-linear optical technology, allowing for a whole-wafer  surface scan to a specific depth to provide crystal structure  information, offering detail on crystal defect density and distribution,  and enabling customers to effectively assess substrate quality to ensure the  stability of the quality and performance of components produced. Wang further explains that the JadeSiC-NK non-destructive  defect inspection system focuses on efficiently and stably identifying killer defects  (BPD, TSD, micro-pipe, stacking fault). Compared to the existing KOH etching  method, which involves inspecting two substrates from sliced SiC ingots,  JadeSiC-NK can significantly save inspection time and substrate costs. For  example, a crystal growth furnace producing four ingots per month, with  JadeSiC-NK, each ingot can save the cost of two substrates (calculated at $800 per each 6-inch substrate), resulting in an  estimated annual savings over $70,000 per furnace.  For a substrate manufacturer with 100 furnaces, this amounts to annual savings  of $7.68m, it is reckoned. Furthermore, JadeSiC-NK enables a 100% wafer  inspection for the same ingot, facilitating detailed ingot analysis and batch  traceability analysis which will assist customers in accelerating process and  yield optimization in the high-tech compound semiconductor market. The JadeSiC-NK system launched by Spirox and Southport applies non-linear optical technology to the  inspection and analysis of compound semiconductors, says Dr Hao-Chung Kuo, chair professor of the Department of  Optoelectronic Engineering at Taiwan NCYU. This innovation is expected to break  through the current industry's technical bottlenecks in mass production and  process improvement, providing significant impetus to the development of the  industry chain. It is hoped that JadeSiC-NK, with its more effective and stable  inspection technology, will establish industry standards for SiC substrate  inspection. This, in turn, can lead continuous innovation and breakthroughs in  market applications. “Considering the instability of distribution and the pursuit of a  better profit structure, Spirox has been continuously enlarging its  investment in own-brand to develop solutions to fulfill customer needs,” says Spirox’s  CEO Paul Yang. “Through the acquisition of Southport, Spirox aims to accelerate the development  process of our own-brand products, expanding from semiconductor packaging and  testing equipment to optical inspection. The initial focus is on the highly  promising defect inspection of compound semiconductor materials.” Since the collaboration between Spirox and Southport in distribution, there has been a mutual  understanding of mutual reinforcement, says Yang.  The establishment of the Advanced Opto-Material Inspection Laboratory allows  the unique optical inspection technology to quickly enter the industry field.  Through repeated verification by customers, product specifications are adjusted  to meet their needs. In addition to applying non-linear optical technology in  the newly launched JadeSiC-NK, there are plans to accelerate the  commercialization of advanced optical inspection technologies in areas such as  micro-LEDs, metamaterials, silicon photonics etc, in the future. Spirox  says that it will continue to increase R&D efforts, effectively integrating  group resources to maximize synergies. “It’s a great pleasure to see two Taiwanese local companies  creating synergy through a mutually beneficial collaboration, generating  tremendous value for the industry,” comments Ken Tai, chairman of the Photonics  Industry and Technology Development Association (PIDA). “The JadeSiC-NK  launched by Spirox and Southport represents a  groundbreaking technological breakthrough,” he reckons. “It is not only a  revolutionary product for the global compound semiconductor industry,  capable of significantly reducing costs and increasing production capacity, but  also showcases Taiwan’s technological  leadership.” 