NUBURU’s Q3 hit by supply chain restrictions and delays in shipping products For third-quarter  2023, NUBURU Inc of  Centennial, CO, USA — which was founded in 2015 and develops and manufactures  high-power industrial blue lasers — has reported revenue of $0.187m, down 78% on $0.868m a year ago, due mainly to a decrease in the  number of laser system sales. “Results reflect  supply chain restrictions mostly in-line with our expectations entering the  second half of 2023,” comments CEO  Brian Knaley. “We however faced additional headwinds from the  integration of our systems into customer applications and subsequently  experienced delays in the shipment of our products. I’m confident that the  solutions we have developed will not only enhance our BL-250 product offering  but also streamline the manufacturing process to improve the application and  integration of our technologies within their respective end-markets going  forward,” he adds. Gross margin was –497%, compared with  –111% a year ago,  driven by decreasing revenue but partially offset by lower cost of revenues  following the retirement of the AO series. Operating expenses have risen from $2.92m to $4.22m, due mainly to increased professional  fees associated with legal, compliance and accounting matters associated with  the cost of operating a public company, plus increased R&D personnel  expenses and the addition of a new chief marketing & sales officer in  March. Net loss has increased from $3.92m ($0.71 per share) to $5.09m ($0.14 per share),  primarily as a result of the rise in operating expenses. EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation  and amortization) of –$4.825m is up from–$3.783m a year ago,  but cut from –$6m last  quarter. Net cash used in  operating activities has almost doubled from $2.56m to $4.56m. Driven mainly by  the increase in production capabilities to support additional product lines, capital expenditure has risen from $0.097m  a year ago to $0.317m. Free cash flow was hence –$4.88m, due mainly  to the decreasing revenue and the increase in operating expenses. During the  quarter, cash and cash equivalents fell from $5.1m to just  $1.63m. However, subsequent to the quarter-end, NUBURU agreed a secured bridge loan worth $5.5m with  existing investors and a new institutional investor in order to finance the  firm until it secures long-term credit financing, which is anticipated in the  near term. During the quarter, NUBURU: “The purchase order  we’ve received from a major multi-national electronics manufacturer stands as a  testimony for the unbroken inbound of interest in our cutting-edge blue laser  technology,” says executive chairman  Ron Nicol. “Our focus is now on further strengthening our distribution  network. Combining the current growing end-markets with our extensive IP and  upcoming 1kW blue laser system, NUBURU is well positioned to drive commercial success and  execute against its long-term growth strategy,” he reckons. “With the  anticipation of a rebound in deliveries of our laser systems during the fourth  quarter of 2023, we have adjusted our full-year 2023 outlook accordingly and  are eagerly awaiting the positive impact of our technological improvements,”  says Knaley. NUBURU has revised  its 2023 outlook to revenue of $2.1m (rather than over  $3m), EBITDA in the range of –$18m to –$21m (cut  from –$21m to –$23m), and free cash flow of –$17m to –$20m (cut from –$24m to –$26m). The firm believes  that it has access to sufficient sources of capital to fund this business plan. 