Navitas’ revenue grows 22% sequentially in Q3 For  third-quarter 2023, gallium nitride (GaN) power IC and silicon carbide (SiC) technology firm Navitas Semiconductor Corp of Torrance, CA, USA has reported revenue of $22m, up  22% on $18.1m last quarter. This is also up 115% on $10.2m a year ago, aided somewhat by the acquisition in August 2022 of silicon carbide power semiconductor device designer and manufacturer GeneSiC  Semiconductor Inc of  Dulles, VA, USA. “Our  gallium nitride and silicon carbide technologies continue to displace  legacy power silicon in traditional markets and enable and accelerate  new energy markets,” says CEO & co-founder Gene Sheridan. 
   On a non-GAAP basis, gross margin  has grown further, from 38.4% a year ago and 41.5% last quarter to 42.1%. Operating expenses  have risen further, from $14.2m a year ago and $17m last quarter to $18m, due  to R&D spending rising from $6.3m to $10.5m, while selling, general &  administrative (SG&A) expenses were cut from $7.9m to $7.4m. Net loss has been cut  further, from $9.2m ($0.07 per share) a year ago and $8.65m ($0.05 per share)  last quarter to $7m ($0.04 per share). During the quarter, cash and cash  equivalents fell slightly, from $177.7m to $176.7m. “GaN is  moving from a beachhead to the mainstream for mobile fast chargers, with  continued strength and upside led by major China OEMs Xiaomi and Oppo,” notes Navitas. “We expect 30% of their total mobile charger shipments in 2024  will utilize GaN, and GaN has been adopted by Samsung for the latest  Galaxy S23 and other models, contributing to Q3 and expected Q4/2023 revenue  ramp,” it adds. 
   New Gen-4  GaNSense half-bridge ICs, targeting ultra-fast chargers of 100W or  more, are projected to contribute another $10m per year in revenue ramping in  2024. “The new GaNSense products replace dozens of components with a single  GaN IC and enable switching frequencies up to 2MHz to reduce footprint and  simplify designs,” the firm says. Launched in  September, GaNSafe is claimed to be the world’s most protected, most reliable  and highest-performance GaN power semiconductor, with advanced sensing,  protection, higher-power capability and cool operation, enabling GaN to enter  high-power, high-reliability markets such as artificial intelligence  (AI) data centers, solar, electric vehicles (EVs) and industrial.  GaNSafe power ICs are featured in a new 6.6kW, 800V on-board charger  (OBC) platform from Navitas’ dedicated EV system design center, which  claims to set industry benchmarks in system efficiency, density and cost. The  OBC is a ‘hybrid’ platform, featuring GaNSafe and a new, Gen-3 Fast (G3F)  GeneSiC MOSFET platform, with silicon carbide power and switching  performance that is claimed to be up to 50% better than competition. Rapid adoption  of AI has created unprecedented demand for more power, higher efficiency and  greater power density, notes Navitas. The firm’s data-center design center  has developed a new 4.5kW AC–DC system  platform design, with efficiency exceeding the 96% ‘Titanium Plus’  standard, and with twice the power density of previous, best-in-class,  legacy silicon designs, it is reckoned. GaNSafe and Gen-3 Fast SiC are  again used to optimize these high-power applications, with significant growth  in the number of customer pipeline projects. Solar,  appliance and industrial markets also show robust growth in the customer  pipeline, with broad interest in the new Gen-3 Fast MOSFETs, says Navitas.  The Gen-4 GaNSense half-bridge portfolio now includes new  application-specific ICs for motor drives, compressors and pumps up  to 1kW, with sensing, autonomy and programming functionality for easy EMI. Fourth-quarter  2023 will also see the introduction of new bi-directional GaN. Each GaN  power IC will replace up to four discrete power transistors,  dramatically reducing component count, cost and complexity, and delivering  major speed and efficiency benefits, says Navitas. Bi-directional GaN  technology is expected to usher in major advances in energy storage,  grid infrastructure, motor drives and many other emerging topologies  and architectures across multiple markets. For fourth-quarter  2023, Navitas forecasts revenue to grow to  $25 - 26m. Gross  margin is expected to rise to 42.5% (plus or minus 30 basis points), with  operating expenses increasing further to about $20m. “It’s a very  exciting time at Navitas as we launch four major new technology platforms  across GaN and SiC,” comments Sheridan. “We expect Navitas’ revenues to far  exceed market growth rates in 2024 and for years to come.” 