CSA Catapult receives £4m to deliver resilient future telecoms network for UK Compound Semiconductor  Applications (CSA) Catapult has been awarded £4m from UK Government agency Innovate UK (which provides funding and  support for business innovation as part of UK Research and Innovation) to help deliver a resilient and  energy-efficient future telecoms  network for the UK. Established in  2017 by Innovate UK, CSA Catapult is a not-for-profit organization  focused on accelerating the adoption of compound semiconductors in three  key areas (the road to Net Zero, future telecoms and intelligent sensing).  Headquartered in Newport, South Wales, it works across the UK in a range  of industry sectors, from automotive to medical, and from digital  communications to aerospace. The funding will help expand CSA Catapult’s activities across the  future telecoms landscape and develop new compound semiconductor  technologies to improve the speed, energy efficiency and security of the  UK’s communications networks. Made in the Autumn Statement, the announcement coincides with the  launch of CSA Catapult’s new Future Telecoms Hub, which has been  officially opened by Sir John Whittingdale MP, Minister for Data and Digital Infrastructure. Funded through an initial £2.5m investment by Innovate UK and  based at the Bristol and Bath Science Park, the Future Telecoms Hub  combines state-of-the-art equipment with expertise to test and develop new  telecoms hardware made using compound semiconductors. A priority of the Future Telecoms Hub will be to improve the  performance of power amplifiers. Analysis from CSA Catapult (in an Energy Efficient  Networks white paper) has revealed that, in a typical base station,  power amplifiers can account for up to 80% of the power consumed. As base stations  themselves account for over 70% of power consumption across the whole telecoms  network, there is a sizeable opportunity to drastically increase energy efficiency  by improving just a single device. CSA Catapult analysis also shows that RF power amplifiers  present one of the biggest market opportunities across the network, with the  global market set to grow to $9bn by 2025 (according to ABI Research). Devices  fabricated using compound semiconductors — specifically gallium nitride  (GaN) — are expected to occupy 25–35% of that addressable market, with a  value of $2.5–2.7bn, according to market research firm Yole Group. The Future Telecoms Hub will complement CSA Catapult’s  existing operations at its headquarters in Newport, South Wales by  providing closer access to a thriving telecoms ecosystem across Bristol and the  South West of England that includes several major technology companies and  research institutions. The Future Telecoms Hub will also strengthen CSA Catapult’s  connection with the Western Gateway and will host collaborative research  projects with the University of Bristol. The additional funding from Innovate UK comes at a “significant  point in the Catapult’s journey as we open the doors to our new Future Telecoms  Hub in Bristol,” says CSA Catapult’s CEO Martin McHugh. “Bristol  has an established network of innovative companies and research institutions  located within and around the city, as well as strong links with partners  across the Western Gateway, so it was a natural fit for us to place our future  telecoms capability here,” he adds. “With the widespread adoption of 5G and our  increasing dependence on connected technologies, the demand for safe, secure  and reliable telecoms infrastructure has never been greater. The Future Telecoms  Hub will enable our partners to bring new telecoms technologies to market and  allow us to continue to build supply chains, increase investment in  R&D and grow the UK economy.” “As the national innovation agency, Innovate UK will make  these strategic investments to enable innovative businesses to grow in the UK  and deliver against some of the biggest global challenges,” says Innovate UK’s CEO Indro Mukerjee. “These investments are part of our core  domain activities across Net Zero, Digital & Technologies and Healthy Living  & Agriculture,” he adds. “They enhance national capability through our  world-leading Catapults, and will be deployed across the UK.” “Digital connectivity is the lifeblood of the future economy.  Innovation that will take place in hubs like this in Bristol will open business  opportunities, transform industries and drive economic growth around the world  in the decades ahead,” says Whittingdale.  “A stone’s throw from the world’s first compound semiconductor cluster in  South Wales, Innovate UK’s investment will drive forward British  leadership in researching these advanced chips to unlock opportunity with  future telecoms.” 