OIPT wins orders for ALE and ALD systems from Japanese GaN HEMT foundries Oxford Instruments  Plasma Technology (OIPT) of Yatton, near Bristol, UK says that it has received significant  orders for plasma atomic layer  deposition (ALD) and atomic layer  etch (ALE) systems for gallium nitride  (GaN) high-electron-mobility transistor (HEMT) device production from several  market-leading Japanese foundries. The systems will support high-growth GaN  power electronics and radio frequency markets, with consumer  fast-charging and data-center applications at the forefront for power electronics, and 5G/6G communication  applications for the RF market. Oxford Instruments says that its ALD technology  delivers high-throughput, low-damage plasma processing with enhanced film and  interface quality, and is positioned globally at market-leading GaN HEMT  device manufacturers. Its ALE solution for p-GaN HEMTs is production-qualified  and combines low-damage etching with what is claimed to be unmatched accuracy  with Etchpoint, a unique end-point detection collaboration with in-situ  metrology system maker LayTec AG of Berlin, Germany. Etchpoint, an exclusive collaboration  between Oxford Instruments and LayTec, allows automated switching from standard  high-rate etch processing to low-damage ALE to support improved device  reliability. In addition, ALE enables partial aluminium gallium nitride (AlGaN) recess etches with a critical  target depth, to an unparalleled  accuracy of ±0.5nm, for next-generation GaN MISHEMT  E-mode device functionality. These technologies can be clustered on an  automated handler that enables multi-chamber processing without breaking  vacuum, which can potentially improve device performance and deliver more good wafers per day at lower cost. “Japan is delivering a significant ramp in  GaN HEMT production for key power electronics  and RF markets, and we are benefitting from this by expanding our install base  at existing and new customers,” says GaN product manager  Dr Aileen O’Mahony. “It is exciting  to see our implemented at leading Japanese and global GaN HEMT manufacturers,”  she adds. “Our complete GaN HEMT  solution is designed to solve complex customer device challenges, with  production-class throughput, reliability and up-time.” In stand #5609  at SEMICON Japan 2023 in Tokyo (13–15 December) a team of plasma process and equipment experts from Oxford  Instruments is available to discuss the firm’s GaN ALE  with Etchpoint and ALD with pre-treatment, Plasma Polish  silicon carbide (SiC) substrate prep, etch, deposition and complementary  metrology technology. 