Veeco’s Q3 revenue and profits exceed guidance For third-quarter  2023, epitaxial deposition and process equipment maker  Veeco Instruments Inc of Plainview, NY, USA has reported revenue  of $177.4m, up 10% on $161.6m last quarter and up 3.2% on $171.9m a year  ago, driven by continued strength in the Semiconductor business and sequential  growth in Data Storage business. This exceeded the $155–175m guidance range, after shipping one or two more  systems than forecasted at the end of Q3 rather than the beginning of Q4. “Our  on-time delivery for systems was, if not 100%, extremely close to 100%,” notes  CEO Bill Miller Ph.D. After a record $106m in Q2, revenue from the Semiconductor segment (Front-End and Back-End,  as well as EUV Mask Blank systems and Advanced Packaging) was a  still strong $98m (56% of revenue), including shipping multiple laser spike  annealing (LSA) systems to leading tier-1 logic and memory customers. “Shipments  remained elevated during the quarter due to broad-based demand from logic and  memory customers,” says Miller. The Data Storage  segment (equipment for thin-film magnetic head manufacturing)  contributed $34m (19% of revenue), up from $14m last quarter and $28m a year ago. The Scientific &  Other segment (research institutions and other applications) contributed $20m  (11% of total revenue), up on $17m last quarter and $16m a year ago. The Compound  Semiconductor sector (Power Electronics, RF Filter & Device  applications, and Photonics including specialty, mini- and micro-LEDs, VCSELs,  laser diodes) contributed $26m (14% of revenue), down  on $28m a year ago but up on $24m last quarter. By region, the USA rose  further, from 22% of revenue last quarter to 33%, due to an increase in  shipments to Data Storage customers. Revenue from the Asia-Pacific (excluding China) region  fell back, from 36% to 29% of total revenue due to a decline in Semiconductor  sales following the significant increase in Q2. As forecasted, China fell  further, from 31% to 23% of revenue. Europe, Middle-East & Africa (EMEA)  returned to 15% of revenue, after a dip to 11% last quarter.  On a non-GAAP basis, gross  margin has risen further, from 42% a year ago and 42.7% last quarter to 44.2% (exceeding the 42–43% guidance), positively impacted by higher volume and  a more favorable product mix. Operating expenses have  risen further, from $43.9m a year ago and $44.8m last  quarter to $45.7m, in line with the $45–47m guidance as the firm  maintains its focus on cost management while also prioritizing investment for  future growth opportunities. Net income was $31m ($0.53 per diluted  share), up from $20.6m ($0.36 per diluted share) last quarter and  $26m ($0.45 per diluted share) a year ago, and exceeding the guidance range of  $17–23m ($0.30–0.40 per diluted share). Cash flow from  operations has fallen further, from $11m last quarter to $7m. After being reduced  to $4m last quarter, capital expenditure (CapEx) was increased to $6m. Overall,  cash and short-term investments remained about $287m. Long-term debt remained  about $275m, representing the carrying value of our $282m of convertible notes. Inventory rose  further, by $8m from last quarter’s $244m to $252m, while days of inventory  outstanding (DIO) fell from 225 days to 222 days, due to continued  investment in the firm’s evaluation program and to support revenue growth in  second-half 2023. “Veeco reported  another quarter of strong top- and bottom-line results, both above the high-end  of our guidance,” comments Miller. “In addition, our strategic initiative to  grow in the Semiconductor market continues to gain traction.” “Veeco’s laser  annealing technology is growing in criticality at our customer’s most advanced  nodes as traditional technology struggle to meet performance requirements. For  example, new gate-all-around architectures and shrinking devices require  precise higher-temperature annealing technology to increase performance and  minimize damage,” says Miller. “In comparison to traditional lamp approaches,  our laser annealing system has several advantages. These include a lower  thermal budget, higher dopant activation, and pattern insensitivity  to annealing. Veeco’s laser annealing system continues to be adopted by new and  existing customers for new applications, with recent wins validating our  position,” he adds. “Looking ahead, we’re focused on gaining further adoption  in new markets and applications.” In particular, Veeco  had several key business wins during the quarter. The firm received its first  laser annealing system order for a new application to serve the automotive  market. It also received its first low-defect-density (LDD) ion beam deposition (IBD)  system order for a new extreme ultraviolet (EUV) pellicle mask blank application. “We continue to make  progress with our nanosecond annealing and ion beam deposition products for  wafer-level semiconductor manufacturing,” says Miller. Veeco shipped its  first nanosecond annealing system to a tier-1 logic customer, for one-year  evaluation. “Pull from tier-1 logic and memory customers is strong, and we plan  another evaluation shipment in the coming months,” says Miller. “If successful,  [this] can significantly expand our served available market… We see potential  for initial high-volume manufacturing orders in late 2024 or 2025,” he adds. “Compared  to traditional annealing solutions, our nanosecond annealing system can achieve  a lower thermal budget enabled by a dwell time that can be up to 1000 times shorter than  today's most advanced anneals. Our nanosecond annealing system can rapidly heat  the surface of the wafer and only affect tens to hundredths of nanometers into  the wafer. This may enable new applications such as backside power delivery, and contact  anneal for advanced nodes. It also may enable new applications requiring  material modification such as void removal, recrystallization, and grain  growth,” Miller says. “After working on the technology for a number of years, this  as an important milestone in expanding laser annealing into a broad range of  new Semiconductor applications,” he adds. “Veeco’s  low-defect-density ion beam deposition system is the technology of choice  to deposit defect-free films for EUV mask blank production, and we are  well positioned to serve growing demand from adoption of EUV lithography,”  reckons Miller. “While we continue to see this market at about 3–5 systems per year [at a rate of one Veeco system for every 10–15 EUV lithography scanners shipped by ASML], we see potential to expand  our business beyond the current application space in areas such as pellicle  deposition.” “In advanced  packaging, our wet processing solutions are used for photo-resist strip,  solvent cleans and flux removal for high-bandwidth memory and  temporary bond material strip,” says Miller. “During the quarter, leading  foundry and memory customers placed orders for several Flux Clean systems  that support advanced packaging for AI.” For fourth-quarter  2023, Veeco expects revenue of $155–175m (including  about $105m in the Semiconductor segment). Gross margin should  fall slightly to 43–44%. With operating expenses of $45–47m, the firm forecasts a decline in net income to $20–27m ($0.35–0.45 per diluted share). “We expect an  increase in China revenue in Q4 [to the high-30% range of total revenue] as  customers are continuing to make investments in several areas for mature  nodes,” says senior VP & chief financial officer John Kiernan.  Full-year revenue from China is expected to rise to the low-30% range (compared with about  20% over the past couple of years), driven mostly by the laser annealing product  line. Full-year 2023  revenue guidance has now been tightened and increased from the prior range of  $630–670m to $648–668m (up on 2022’s  $646.1m), including about $405m in the Semiconductor segment. “Based on our  strong year-to-date results and outlook, we expect our Semiconductor business  to outperform the wafer fab equipment (WFE) market and be up about 10% for the year,” says Miller. Previously, in August,  Veeco raised its full-year gross margin guidance from  41–42% to 42–43%. “We are again raising our profitability outlook for the year  to account for higher revenue, stronger gross margin, and lower tax rate,”  says Kiernan. Therefore, after in August raising its guidance for diluted  earnings per share (EPS) from $1.15–1.35 to $1.30–1.50, Veeco has increased  this again, to $1.55–1.65 (compared with $1.57 for 2022). Based on market  conditions and visibility, Q1/2024 revenue is looking to be in a similar range  to quarterly revenue in second-half 2023. In the Compound  Semiconductor segment, Veeco reckons that the market for epitaxy equipment  provides a substantial growth opportunity. “We are on track with  our plan post our silicon carbide [chemical vapor deposition] epi  equipment company acquisition [of Epiluvac AB of Lund, Sweden] in January,” says Miller. “We have a  tool operating in Somerset, New Jersey. We are running films. We’ve  demonstrated high growth rate, we’ve demonstrated good film quality,  good uniformity, morphology etc, and we are building out our demo bingo sheet,  if you will, and making progress there. Our plan is to be demo ready by  year-end, so we are feverishly working toward that with the goal of putting a  few silicon carbide evaluation systems out in the field next year,” he  adds. “Because I feel we’re on track with the original plan we laid out, we’ve  spoken to a lot of tier-1 customers in the industry,” continues Miller.  “Interest in our single-wafer solution is strong, with several evaluation  shipments to tier-1 customers planned for next year. Looking ahead, our unique  system design, years of experience with epitaxy technology and extensive  go-to-market infrastructure, position us well to capture share,” he reckons. “Likewise, we are  also investing in GaN power and micro-LED, as the long-term fundamentals in  these markets remain positive,” says Miller. “We have a long-term  opportunity to capitalize on growing demand in the compound semiconductor  equipment market for power electronics and photonics applications,” he  concludes. 