European research project PROGRESSUS boosts power grid resilience At the  conclusion of the PROGRESSUS research project (which began on 1 April 2020,  led by Infineon Technologies AG of Munich, Germany), the 22 project partners  from industry and research presented the results at a meeting in Bari, Italy.  Among other things, a solution was introduced that would make it possible to  operate 10–15 times more electric car charging stations on a single  network connection. In addition, a strategy for tracking electricity from  generation all the way to consumption was presented. PROGRESSUS focused on  three central topics: efficient energy conversion, intelligent electricity management  and secure network monitoring. The Electronic  Components and Systems for European Leadership Joint Undertaking  (ECSEL-JU) and the governments of Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Slovakia and  Spain supported PROGRESSUS with almost €20m. “Decarbonization  and electrification go hand in hand. Our power grids will have to perform  better and become more stable if they are to handle the growing power volumes  and fluctuations in the supply and demand of electricity. This means we need  new solutions,” says Thomas Zollver, senior VP technology & innovation  of the Infineon Connected Secure Systems division. “PROGRESSUS has  succeeded in developing a significant number of technologies that can make our  existing networks more resilient,” he adds. “The project is thus making an  important contribution to freeing our modern lives from fossil energy sources  and protecting our climate for future generations.” The project  developed highly efficient electric power converters that minimize loss  while integrating battery storage systems and renewable energy sources  such as photovoltaics: The converters integrate ultra-fast sensors and silicon carbide  (SiC) MOSFETs, which can be switched at considerably higher speeds. This makes  them suitable for use in new, innovative charge management systems for  battery-electric vehicles that reduce the peak power consumption at the  site level by as much as 90%, without significantly longer charging times.  As an alternative the intelligent charging algorithm can support 10–15  times more charging stations on the same network connection. Hardware-based  security solutions provide the best possible protection of the communications  and data in the power network’s critical infrastructure against manipulation.  These solutions also serve as a basis for tracking the energy provided from the  point of generation all the way to its consumption. This makes it possible for  consumers to prove that they are using green electricity. Joint energy  management of multiple buildings can also help to relieve power networks.  PROGRESSUS project partners have simulated this kind of energy management  system based on real data from 16 buildings with photovoltaic systems and  energy storage systems. The result: This kind of joint energy management  could reduce electricity peak demands present in the public network by an  average up to 80%, without a negative impact on customers’ needs. This value  for the case investigated depends on the season, weather conditions and  the configuration of the PV and storage systems. The 22 partners of the PROGRESSUS  research project are: 