AXT’s Q3 GaAs revenue hit by China export restrictions, offset by rebound in InP For third-quarter 2023, AXT Inc of Fremont,  CA, USA – which makes gallium arsenide (GaAs), indium phosphide (InP)  and germanium (Ge) substrates and raw materials – has reported a  further decline in revenue, from $18.6m last quarter to $17.4m, more than  halving from $35.2m a year ago. 
By product category, gallium arsenide revenue has fallen further, from  $8.1m a year ago and $5.4m last quarter to $4.2m. “In September  Tongmei, our subsidiary in China received initial export licenses and was able  to resume shipping gallium arsenide substrates  and germanium substrates in the second half of September to a number of our  customers,” says CEO Dr Morris Young. “We made good progress in filling  customer orders and minimizing disruptions,” he adds. “We continue to work  through that process on behalf of a growing number of our gallium arsenide customers,” says VP & chief financial officer Gary Fischer. Germanium substrate  revenue rebounded by $1.2m from last quarter’s $1m, after receiving the export  permits from China on behalf of customers and being able to ship accordingly. “The  overall satellite solar cell market is navigating similar  cyclical headwinds as the other markets. But we are confident that this area of  our business will recover as the market strengthens,” says Young. Although it is still well down on $17.7m a year ago, indium phosphide revenue has rebounded from $4.6m last  quarter to $4.9m, reflecting a stabilizing market with modest improvement in  data-center applications. “The demand  environment in the third quarter of 2023 remained stable, and we were pleased  to see some encouraging early signs of improvement in the data-center market,  resulting in modestly higher indium phosphide revenue,”  says Young. In addition, revenue  was $7m from the two consolidated raw material joint venture companies: BoYu (which makes high-temperature pyrolytic boron nitride crucibles and pBN-based tools for organic light-emitting diodes)  and JinMei (which supplies high-purity materials including gallium and  germanium, as well as InP poly and other materials). This was down slightly on  $7.6m last quarter and $8.3m a year ago. “Overall, the pricing environment  remains relatively stable. We don’t expect any major changes in Q4,” says  Young. Of total revenue in  Q3/2023, the proportion from the Asia-Pacific region has rebounded further,  from 75% last quarter to 82%, while Europe has fallen back further from 16% to  14% and North America from 9% to 4%. The  proportion of total revenue contributed by the top five customers has rebounded  from 24% last quarter to 31%. Again, no customer comprised more than 10%. On a non-GAAP basis,  gross margin was 11.3%, down on 42.2% a year ago but up from 9.8% last quarter,  driven by volume, product mix, and an improvement in raw material business gross margin. Operating expenses  were $7.8m, level with last quarter but cut from $9.2m a year ago. “With the  reduction in overall revenue, we have maintained spending discipline in our  operating expenses to align with the current environment,” notes Fischer. Net loss was $4.9m ($0.12 per share), up from $4.2m ($0.10 per share)  last quarter and compared with net income of $6.8m ($0.16 per share) a year ago.  Depreciation & amortization was $2.2m. Capital expenditure (CapEx) has  increased from just $750,000 last quarter to $4m. During the quarter, cash and  cash equivalents and investments hence fell from $49.6m to $43.6m. Net inventory was reduced further, by $700,000 from $87.1m to $86.4m. Of the net inventory, 41% is raw materials, 55% is  work-in-progress (WIP), and only 4% is finished goods. “We’ve looked at  historic inventory levels when maybe we were doing $25–30m [in revenue] per  quarter. We should be able to take inventory down. We should shrink it by at  least $10m,” says Fischer. For Q4/2023, AXT  expects revenue to be roughly level, at $16–19m. Net loss should  grow to $0.13–0.15. “As we navigate the  near-term environment, we will continue to prioritize cost savings and  efficiency, and are focused on accelerating our return to profitability,” says  Young. “While inventory  rationalization may persist into the New Year, we believe that  the trends that have driven our revenue and customer expansion remain very much  intact. Further, we have executed well in our development of larger-diameter  substrates that will pave the way for our opportunities in next-generation devices  spanning data-center, consumer and other markets,” he adds. “The market for  gallium arsenide remains weak but stable… Inventory digestion is likely to continue  into 2024. That said, we are actively preparing for a new wave of innovation in  our markets,” notes Young. “We are pleased by the progress we’re making in our  8-inch gallium arsenide for customers. This consumer high-end display and  automotive application is for micro-LEDs… today our customers’ specifications  for micro-LEDs are exponentially more stringent than they were when our 8-inch  development began. Yet we have been able to meet these requirements. We feel  very confident in our ability to serve this emerging market. We believe that  there will be a growing number of use cases in development.  Our expectation is that product development from multiple customers is likely  to ramp throughout 2024, with the first micro-LED products come into market in  2025 and beyond.” “As the data-center  market prepares to move to 800Gbps data rates, we are seeing increased  development around next-generation silicon photonics devices and  electro-absorption modulation laser (EMLs) for high-speed  data-center transceivers,” notes Youg. “The growing adoption of AI technology  is providing a strong catalyst for the industry transition to higher speed, and  we are excited to be engaging with customers for new opportunities as the  market expands. Our proven performance in optical devices for the data center, coupled with our success in developing 6-inch indium phosphide substrates, is putting us in  a solid position for both current and future generations of data-center optical  devices. We are also seeing positive development activities in both consumer  and healthcare applications for indium phosphide. This  further reinforces our conviction that we are very early stage in our adoption  of this material across a multitude of emerging applications,” he adds. “Our  early success not only validates indium phosphide as the material of strategic  importance, it validates AXT as a world-class supplier to tier-one companies.  The next two years we’ll see the further expansion into these and other areas.” “Beyond the near  term, we remain confident that we can get [gross margin] back to the mid-30%  range as the environment strengthens through higher overall volume, more  favorable product mix and the benefits of our recycling  programs, along with continued efficiency improvements throughout our  business,” concludes Fischer. On 10 January 2022,  AXT announced that its China-based wafer manufacturing  subsidiary Beijing Tongmei Xtal Technology Co Ltd had applied to list its shares on  the Sci-Tech innovAtion boaRd (STAR Market) of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and that the application had been accepted for review.  Subsequently, Tongmei responded to several rounds of questions received from  the SSE. On 12 July 2022, the SSE  approved the listing of Tongmei’s shares in an initial public offering (IPO) on the STAR Market. On 1 August 2022, the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) accepted  Tongmei’s IPO application for review. The STAR Market IPO remains  subject to review and approval by the CSRC and other authorities. AXT notes  that the process of going public on the STAR Market includes several periods of  review and, therefore, is a lengthy process. Nevertheless, Tongmei hopes to  accomplish this goal in the coming months. 