Stacking p-down green LEDs using tunnel junctions Ohio State University and Lumileds LLC in the USA, report on dual-junction p-down  green light-emitting diodes (LEDs) [Sheikh Ifatur Rahman et al, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., vol62,  p110904, 2023]. By connecting stacked active LED regions  with tunnel junctions, the researchers  reduced the injection current needed for  a desired light output power. A reduced injection current  allows the devices to operate in a region with higher external quantum efficiency (EQE), avoiding the efficiency  droop typically seen at higher currents. Efficiency droop becomes particularly  severe in longer-wavelength green LEDs, creating a ‘green gap’ for efficient semiconductor  light-emission capabilities for lighting, display and laser applications. With  further development, it should be possible to stack more than two LED active regions. Further, the use of the p-down structure  should avoid the efficiency sapping effects of the charge polarization field that arises from the  contrasting ionicity of the chemical bonds in the different layer materials that make up the devices. The researchers explain: “In conventional  metal-polar (+c oriented) LEDs, where the  p-doped layer is on top of the n-doped region, the polarization dipole within  the InGaN quantum well opposes the  depletion field, and high electrostatic carrier injection  barriers are formed on both sides of the well. These barriers block electron  and hole injection into the active region, and therefore could cause  degradation in the electrical efficiency of the diode. In the p-down case, the  polarization dipoles are in the same direction as the depletion field and,  therefore, the electrostatic barriers to electron and hole injection at the  edge of the quantum wells are reduced.” In the p-down format the charge  polarization field is reversed relative to the device structure. Of course, the  conventional structure is conventional due to a number of difficulties in  realizing the p-down structure, particularly in activating the buried p-type  layers. Activation usually consists of thermally  annealing the magnesium-doped gallium nitride  (GaN) to drive out hydrogen, which passivates the p-doping effect of Mg. When  p-GaN is the top layer, most of the hydrogen escapes from the top surface. In  buried p-GaN, the only route is through the sidewalls, making activation more  tricky. More problems arise from the thermal  budget. High-temperature processing can affect doping profiles and degrade the  light-emitting indium gallium nitride (InGaN) quantum wells (QWs). 