Nichia adds in-house production of red laser chips to production of blue and green Nichia Corp of  Tokushima, Japan, the world’s largest gallium nitride (GaN)-based light-emitting diode/laser diode  (LED/LD) manufacturer and inventor of  high-brightness blue and white LEDs, has started in-house production of a  high-power red laser diode chip  and will sell laser packaged products including this high-power red LD chip from spring 2024. Compared with  those using conventional lamps or LED light sources,  laser projectors with the three primary colors of red, green and blue have the  advantage of a much wider color reproduction range, as well as the ability to  achieve high brightness while maintaining compact size and high efficiency. In  recent years, the demand for such projectors has been increasing rapidly, not  only for high-luminance movie theater  projectors but also for individual consumers such as laser TVs and small smart projectors. Laser diodes  play an important role in determining the specifications of projectors, and  Nichia says that it has been required to flexibly respond to various customer  requests for the performance of each RGB color LD. Nichia had been  manufacturing blue and green LD chips in-house, but the red LD chips had been  procured from outside suppliers. So, the quality, cost and supply of red LD  chips were dependent on suppliers, and the challenge was how to meet the  various needs of customers. Nichia started  development of watt-class high-power red LD chips and is now producing them  in-house. It has also made upfront investments in mass-production facilities  and secured production capacity to meet the demand for RGB LDs. In addition to  blue and green LD chips, in-house production of red LD chips will enable Nichia  to manufacture all three primary color  LD chips, allowing it to flexibly consider and respond to various requests from  customers.  Nichia will  start selling laser diode packages utilizing its in-house manufactured red laser  chips from spring 2024. In addition, the red LD chips used in existing products  will be gradually replaced with internally produced chips, rather than those  procured from external suppliers. For example, Nichia’s QuaLas RGB product has  multiple RGB laser diode chips densely mounted in  one small package, and will be one of the firm’s main products with in-house  red LD chips. QuaLas’s optical output power  in each RGB color is 8.3W for blue (typical wavelength 465nm), 4.8W for green (typical  wavelength 525nm), and 10.0W for red (typical wavelength 643nm), suggesting a  suitable combination for providing a good white balance for the display (see Figures  1 and 2). To address the  increasing market demand and advancements in performance for laser projectors,  as well as explore further application possibilities, Nichia aims to accelerate  the development and commercialization of red LD  products with improved efficiency and output power by implementing in-house  manufacturing. 