Wolfspeed reports quarterly revenue, gross margin and EPS at high-end of guidance ranges For its fiscal  first-quarter 2024 (to end-September 2023), Wolfspeed Inc of Durham, NC,  USA - which makes silicon carbide  materials as well as silicon carbide (SiC) and gallium nitride (GaN)  power-switching & RF semiconductor devices — has reported revenue from continuing operations of $197.4m, down 16.3% on  $235.8m last quarter but up 4.2% on $189.4m a year ago. This was above the  midpoint of the updated guidance range of $185–205m,  which was reduced from $220–240m after the announcement  on 22 August that radio frequency business Wolfspeed RF is being sold to MACOM Technology Solutions Holdings Inc of Lowell, MA, USA for about $75m in cash (subject to a  customary purchase price adjustment) plus 711,528 shares of MACOM common stock (valued at $50m based  on its 30 trading day trailing average closing price through 21 August). “When the sale is finalized, we will have completed the path  towards portfolio optimization that we’ve been on since 2018, when we were  predominantly a lighting company,” notes chief financial officer Neill  Reynolds. “Wolfspeed is now the world’s only pure-play vertically integrated  silicon carbide company, and we can focus all our collective efforts on  the silicon carbide materials and power device businesses.” Power Products revenue was $101.2m, down 3.2% on $104.5m a year ago. Of  this, the new Mohawk Valley Fab contributed $4m in revenue, up from $1m last quarter. “Power device  revenue was impacted by slower industrial and energy demand, primarily in China  and the broader Asian market,” says Reynolds (adding that China represents  about 20% of total company revenue, primarily in the industrial and energy  space). This was partially offset by the revenue ramp from the  Mohawk Valley Fab. In contrast, Materials Product revenue was $96.2m, up 13.3% on $84.9m a year ago. “Materials  150mm substrate revenue achieved a record quarter, above our expectations,  driven by continued strong demand and record manufacturing performance by our  Durham materials operations team,” says Reynolds. On a non-GAAP basis, gross margin has fallen  further, from 38.8% a year ago to 15.6%. However, this includes an impact of 1740  basis points (17.4%) from $34.4m of under-utilization costs, since the  Mohawk Valley Fab began revenue-generating production at the end of fiscal  2023 and operating it is now reflected in cost of revenue rather than factory  start-up costs. It is also towards the high end of the 10–18% guidance range, due largely to improved  materials manufacturing performance resulting in better-than-expected  150mm materials costs and yields, as well as the Mohawk Valley Fab under-utilization  costs being better than the expected $37m. Also,  this is before excluding about 200 basis points of impact from  under-utilization in the RF business. Operating expenses have  been cut from $131.2m a year ago to $119.6m in fiscal Q1/2024. This  included $8.4m of factory start-up costs from the materials expansion efforts, primarily  related to the JP materials facility (John Palmour Manufacturing Center for  Silicon Carbide) that is being built in Siler City, North Carolina. Adjusted net loss from continuing  operations has risen from $30.1m ($0.24 per diluted share) a year ago to $66.6m  ($0.53 per diluted share). However, this is significantly better than the  guidance range of $75–94m ($0.60–0.75 per  diluted share) due to the higher-than-expected revenue and gross margin  as well as lower operating expenses. Operating cash flow was –$112.7m in net  cash used in operating activities. Capital expenditure (CapEx) remained high, at $404m (up from $66m a year ago). Free cash flow  was hence –$517m. During the quarter, cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments rose  from $2955m to $3348m. “In the last year, we have raised approximately  $5bn of low-dilution capital across a number of vectors, including customers,  governments, private financing and capital markets,” notes Reynolds. “In  conjunction with federal funding, we are in good position to execute our  capacity expansion plans, but we will remain nimble to optimize our capital  structure for the long-term.” “We kicked off our  fiscal year with a strong quarter in both execution and market share,” says  president & CEO Gregg Lowe. Wolfspeed  secured its third highest quarterly total of device design-ins at $2.2bn. It  also converted a record $1.4bn of device design-wins (more than 230 projects, many of  which are converting sooner than expected), “illustrating our customers’  willingness to move into volume production and projects that we’ve won over the  past few years,” Lowe adds. “Our  design-in to design-win conversion rate is ahead of our original expectations,”  notes Reynolds. “Based on the design-ins we’ve already secured, we have the  next few years of expected revenue covered by our existing book of business.” “We have clear focus  on the ramp of our Mohawk Valley Fab,” says Lowe.  “At Mohawk Valley, we have an  outstanding operations team in place, Building 10 on our Durham campus is producing enough 200mm  wafers ahead of the needs of Mohawk Valley, and we already have enough qualified product to satisfy our 20%  utilization goals,” he adds. In 2018, the silicon carbide device  market was estimated to be about $400m. Five years later the market size is  $6bn. “This further validates our strategy to invest now to capitalize on the  immense opportunities at hand, and the significant opportunity in the  future,” Lowe continues. “We have amassed significant materials expertise over  the decades which, combined with the capacity of our new materials factory in  Siler City, will increase our wafer production by 10x when fully  operational, and creates significant competitive advantages over our peers and  new entrants. We will be better positioned to support our customers’ needs  going forward and cater to a whole host of new applications for silicon carbide  technology. As the only pure-play silicon carbide company in the market  today, we believe that we are best positioned to capitalize on a decades-long  tailwind that represents a $20bn addressable market by 2030.” “This  is part of the reason we announced and are now in the process of completing the  sale of our RF business to MACOM, which we expect to close by the end of the  calendar year,” says Lowe. “The growth of Wolfspeed will come from our  leadership in silicon carbide  and power devices  and this marks a definitive milestone in allocating all of our investments,  R&D and technology into these business areas,” he adds. For fiscal second-quarter 2024 (to  end-December 2023), Wolfspeed targets revenue from continuing operations of  $192–222m, driven largely by revenue from  the Mohawk Valley Fab more than doubling to about $10–15m. This will be partially offset by  continued softer demand for industrial and energy products, primarily in the  China and broader Asia markets. “However, we will look to purpose the supply to  where end-demand remains strong,” says Reynolds. “Demand remained strong across  the business outside of the industrial and energy markets, particularly in  China and Asia.” Gross margin is expected to be 12–20%. At the 16% midpoint, this includes about  $35m or –1700 basis points of  under-utilization costs as the Mohawk Valley Fab is ramped up. “We are ahead of plan in our ramp of  Building 10 crystal growth for 200mm substrates. By the end of this  quarter, we will be producing enough material to support 15% utilization at  Mohawk Valley, putting us nicely on track for our goal of 20% utilization  by the June quarter of 2024,” says Lowe. Targeted operating expenses for fiscal  Q2/2024 are about $109m, including $11m of factory start-up costs, primarily  related to the JP materials facility in Siler City (which is expected to  be producing material in fiscal first-half 2025, for which more than 100 new  staff are already being trained). Net loss from  continuing operations is targeted to be $71–88m ($0.56–0.70 per diluted share). “At Mohawk Valley, we remain on pace for  the larger step-up in revenue [doubling again] as we transition into fiscal  Q3/2024,” says Reynolds. “We’ve now doubled the number of products  qualified in the last 90 days, and all of those MOSFETs achieved qualifications  on the first pass through the fab, which is a strong indication of the  underlying capability of the fab,” says Lowe. “Those products we have already  qualified have sufficient demand to more than satisfy our short-term 20%  utilization target,” he adds. “There will be a lag between 20% utilization and  $100m of quarterly revenue [at the end of the quarter to end-December 2024] due  to the time between fab starts and shipments to our customers,” he cautions. 