Aixtron to deliver G10-GaN MOCVD system to BelGaN by end-2023 Deposition equipment  maker Aixtron SE of Herzogenrath, near  Aachen, Germany says that it is enabling automotive-qualified  gallium nitride (GaN) open foundry BelGaN of Oudenaarde, Belgium to expand its business into the growing GaN market and to accelerate GaN  technology innovation. For this strategic step, BelGaN is relying on Aixtron’s new G10-GaN metal-organic chemical vapor deposition (MOCVD) system, which offers what is claimed to be best-in-class performance, an  all-new compact design, and overall lowest cost per wafer. Starting  with an 8x150mm-wafer configuration, the system will be delivered to BelGaN  before the end of 2023 and will in the future migrate to 5x200mm. The fab in Oudenaarde started as MIETEC in  1983, was acquired by Alcatel in 1990 then AMI Semiconductor in 2002, and sold  to ON Semiconductor in 2008.  The team there started GaN development in 2009 and has been building expertise  in production of automotive semiconductors for over 30 years. Established in September  2021, BelGaN acquired what was ON Semiconductor  Belgium BV from onsemi in early 2022, the  site in Oudenaarde has since been transforming from a silicon fab to a GaN fab.  BelGaN recently announced the production start of its first-generation  650V eGaN technology. The Gen1 platform is designed for the requirements of  energy-efficient applications for sustainability and carbon neutrality. The G10-GaN will be used to further extend  the range of power chips  with voltage ratings from 40V to 1200V, using GaN-on-Si, GaN-on-SOI, and novel  GaN-on-engineered substrates. It will be applied both on lateral as well as  vertical power-GaN products, with a focus on high performance, automotive  quality and reliability, high yield, and low costs. “GaN epitaxy using MOCVD is a most  critical process in any power-GaN technology, both to innovate device  architectures, boost performance, yield and quality, and to cut down the cost  of GaN products. This drives a paradigm shift in power electronics,  opening up fast-growing markets in e-mobility, datacom, energy conversion etc, on a road  to an electrified, carbon-neutral society,” says Dr Marnix  Tack, BelGaN’s chief technology officer & VP business development.  “We have been impressed by the high levels of productivity, uniformity and low  cost of ownership of Aixtron’s new G10 platform… The proximity of Aixtron, in the midst of the GaN Valley ecosystem, and the  collaboration with its team is essential for us to rapidly achieve our  innovation and production objectives,” he comments. BelGaN is the founder of the GaN Valley  ecosystem, gathering over 55 firms and research institutes active along the GaN  value chain in Europe. “GaN power devices  are rapidly adopted in a wide range of applications, and many customers are  adding GaN capabilities to their silicon lines,” notes Aixtron’s CEO & president Dr Felix  Grawert. 