QPT shortlisted for ABB Power Density Start-up Challenge Independent power electronics company QPT of Cambridge, UK has been chosen as one of  four finalists to participate in the ABB Power Density  Start-up Challenge 2023 for motor drive  products. “We are seeking innovative and  forward-thinking start-ups to join us in pushing the boundaries of drives and  motors. Today, motors and drives are largely viewed as two independent devices.  The winner will collaborate with us to develop an integrated solution that  optimizes resources and combines motors and drives into a single, seamless  solution,” says ABB of Zurich, Switzerland,  which focuses on electric power engineering and industrial automation.  “We are looking for motivated and disruptive minds to work with ABB’s experts  to create an integrated motor drive technology for a more efficient  future. Key factors that we are looking for are improvements in  power density, thermal management, sustainable supply, overall  simplicity and cost effectiveness to redefine the operational boundaries and  improve the efficiencies of drives and motors,” the firm adds. “Our technology enables drive controls or  variable frequency drives (VFDs) to be made much smaller as we achieve the  best power densities and efficiencies of any current technology by now  enabling GaN to be hard-switched at 1ns to 2ns,” says QPT’s founder & CEO  Rob Gwynne. “Current VFDs are bulky, which means that they are invariably  located away from the motor itself and then connected by copper cables that are  big and heavy to cope with the hundreds of Amps or so going through them and  also waste energy in the process. QPT’s next-generation gallium nitride (GaN)  technology shrinks the size of a VFD to around a twentieth of the size so that  it can be integrated beside the motor. The need for big, costly filters that  silicon, silicon carbide (SiC) or slow existing GaN alternatives require  and preclude easy integration is also eliminated, further reducing the overall  size, which further helps integration,” he adds. The final decision of which company wins  the challenge is scheduled to be announced on 7 December. In the meantime,  there is a detailed evaluation process, which means that QPT’s technology will  be examined in depth over ten days by key people in ABB. 