Keysight EDA strengthens design and simulation support for Tower’s RF process technologies Keysight Technologies Inc  of Santa Rosa, CA, USA has  expanded the simulation capabilities in its electronic design automation (EDA)  software suite to include electro-thermal simulation for the silicon germanium  (SiGe) power amplifier (PA) process of specialty  analog foundry Tower Semiconductor  Ltd  of Migdal Haemek, Israel.  Together with process design kits (PDKs) for Tower radio frequency  (RF) technologies for circuit and physical designs, the new electro-thermal  simulation enables integrated circuit (IC) designers to achieve first-pass  success. Keysight’s Advanced Design System (ADS), RFPro and RFIC Design  (GoldenGate) are platforms for RF and microwave circuit design that help  designers to address their most difficult challenges with advanced solutions  for radio frequency integrated circuit (RFIC), electromagnetic (EM),  and electro-thermal simulation. Platform interoperability allows IC designers  to access Keysight simulation technologies independent of which schematic or  layout environment they use to generate the design. Tower offers silicon-based analog foundry technologies – silicon germanium  (SiGe) for both high-speed and high-power and RF silicon-on-insulator (SOI) –  optimized to assist chip suppliers in delivering differentiated RF front-end  solutions for increasingly complex devices. Designers employ Tower’s latest  PDKs in developing and simulating their RFICs for various applications with  Keysight EDA tools. “Tower has been successfully collaborating with Keysight to solve  the most complex RF problems for our customers. Keysight supports our RF PDKs  for design and simulation in ADS with accurate electromagnetic analysis in  RFPro,” says Dr Samir Chaudhry, senior director of design  enablement at Tower. “Enablement of Keysight’s differentiated  electro-thermal solution in ADS for Tower’s SiGe PA processes is a welcome  move that is already helping RF SiGe customers perform accurate thermal  analyses of their designs,” he adds. “Keysight and Tower have been partnering for more than a decade to  enable our mutual customer design flows with advanced RF solutions, helping  them to achieve faster time-to-market,” says Nilesh Kamdar, senior director and RF/Microwave portfolio manager at  Keysight. “This year, our partnership achieved another milestone by  providing electro-thermal simulation capability for Tower’s RF SiGe  processes as part of ADS. Using this new capability, customers can ensure that  their ICs perform within acceptable operating temperatures prior to  manufacturing.” 