Transphorm and Allegro team up to increase GaN power system performance for high-power applications Transphorm Inc of Goleta, near Santa Barbara,  CA, USA — which designs and manufactures JEDEC- and AEC-Q101-qualified gallium nitride (GaN) field-effect transistors (FETs) for  high-voltage power conversion — and Allegro MicroSystems Inc, which  provides power and sensing semiconductor technology for motion control and  energy-efficient systems, have announced a collaboration including Transphorm’s  SuperGaN FETs and Allegro’s AHV85110 isolated gate driver to enable  the expansion of GaN power system design for high-power applications. Transphorm’s SuperGaN FETs are designed to work in various  topologies and are available in several different packages to support a wide  power range while also satisfying diverse end-application requirements.  SuperGaN FETs are used in commercial products including higher-power systems  where they are proven to increase reliability, power density, and  efficiency, says Transphorm. Allegro’s self-powered, single-channel isolated gate driver  IC is optimized for driving GaN FETs in multiple applications and circuits. The  AHV85110 is proven to enhance driver efficiency by as much as 50% compared with  competing gate drivers. This unique solution simplifies system design,  reduces noise by 10x and common mode capacitance by 15 times compared with  other solutions on the market. “Allegro’s AHV85110 high-voltage gate driver provides a  highly compact and efficient power-stage implementation that helps to achieve  an approximate 30% footprint reduction with the least number of external  components and bias supply requirements around Transphorm’s power  devices,” comments Tushar Dhayagude, VP of worldwide sales & FAE,  Transphorm. “Combined with SuperGaN’s highest reliability and superior dynamic  switching performance over competing technologies, the end result is a  more efficient, more robust solution with increased power density in  critical applications such as server, data centers, renewables and  electric vehicles.” The collaboration “further supports Allegro’s focus towards  helping customers optimize GaN-based system development and design,” says Vijay  Mangtani, VP & general manager of High Voltage Power, Allegro  MicroSystems. “We are looking forward to the opportunity to combine our  high-voltage isolated gate driver AHV85110 with Transphorm’s SuperGaN FET  to enable higher power density, higher efficiency and higher power output  in smaller form factors and provide value to both our and Transphorm’s  customers.” Those interested in testing the collaborative solution can do so  via Allegro’s APEK85110KNH-06-T evaluation board, which incorporates both the  AHV85110 designed to work in various applications along with Transphorm’s TOLL  package (launched in October) available  in three devices with on-resistances of 35mΩ,  50mΩ and 72mΩ. 