OKI develops GaN lifting-off/bonding technology on Shin-Etsu’s QST substrates In collaboration with Shin-Etsu Chemical Co Ltd, Tokyo-based Oki Electric Industry Co Ltd has  developed technology that uses its CFB (crystal film bonding) technology  to lift off only the gallium nitride (GaN) functional layer from  Shin-Etsu Chemical’s QST (Qromis Substrate Technology) substrate (a composite  material substrate developed by California-based Qromis Inc and licensed exclusively for GaN growth to Shin-Etsu in  2019) and bond it to a different material substrate. The technology enables the vertical conduction of GaN and is  expected to contribute to the realization and commercialization of vertical GaN power devices  capable of controlling large currents. The two firms will work further together  to develop vertical GaN power devices that can be implemented by  partnering with companies that manufacture these devices. GaN devices combine high-performance device characteristics with  low power consumption, such as power devices that require high breakdown voltages  of 1800V or more, high-frequency devices for Beyond5G, and high-brightness  micro-LED displays. In particular, demand for vertical GaN power devices  is expected to grow significantly as they can improve the basic performance of  electric vehicles by enabling extended driving ranges and shortened  power supply times. However, two  major challenges hinder the implementation of vertical GaN power devices: the diameter of the wafers must  be increased to improve productivity and vertical conductivity must be realized  to enable large current control.  Picture: An overview of the new  jointly developed technology. The coefficient of thermal expansion of Shin-Etsu Chemical’s QST  substrate is equivalent to that of GaN, so it can suppress warpage and  cracking. This enables the crystal growth of thick GaN films with high  breakdown voltages even on wafers larger than 8-inches, enabling the  production of wafers with larger diameters. In addition, OKI’s CFB technology can lift off just the GaN functional layer from the QST substrate  while maintaining high device performance characteristics. The insulating  buffer layer required for GaN crystal growth can be removed and bonded to  various substrates via metal electrodes that allow ohmic contact. Bonding of  these functional layers to a conductive substrate with high heat dissipation will enable both high heat dissipation and vertical conductivity. It  is reckoned that the combined technologies of Shin-Etsu Chemical and OKI can  hence solve the above two major challenges, paving the way for the  implementation of vertical GaN power devices. In the future, the two companies aim to contribute to the  widespread use of vertical GaN power devices  through Shin-Etsu Chemical’s provision of QST substrates or GaN grown QST substrates to companies  manufacturing GaN devices and OKI’s  provision of CFB technology through partnering and licensing. Furthermore, OKI  hopes to use CFB technology to provide added value  to semiconductor devices that go beyond the framework of single materials. 