Mitsubishi Electric and Nexperia to co-develop SiC power semiconductors Tokyo-based  Mitsubishi Electric Corp is entering into a strategic  partnership with discrete device designer and manufacturer Nexperia B.V. of Nijmegen, The Netherlands  (a subsidiary of Wingtech Technology Co Ltd) to jointly  develop silicon carbide (SiC) power semiconductors for the power electronics market. Mitsubishi Electric will leverage its wide-bandgap  semiconductor technologies to develop and supply SiC MOSFET chips that Nexperia  will use to develop SiC discrete devices. The  global expansion of the electric vehicle  market is helping to drive the exponential growth of SiC power semiconductors, which offer lower energy loss, higher operating temperatures and faster switching speeds than conventional silicon power semiconductors. The high efficiency of  SiC power semiconductors is expected  to contribute significantly to global decarbonization and green transformation. Mitsubishi  Electric claims that it has established leading positions in applications such  as high-speed trains, high-voltage industrial applications and home appliances,  after launching the first SiC power modules  for air conditioners in 2010 and  becoming the first supplier of an all-SiC power module for Shinkansen bullet trains in 2015. Mitsubishi Electric says that it has accumulated  expertise in the development and manufacturing of SiC power modules, which are known for their  advanced performance and high reliability. Going  forward, Mitsubishi Electric expects to strengthen its partnership with  Nexperia, whose devices are used in the automotive, industrial, mobile and  consumer markets, contributing to decarbonization and sustainability.  Mitsubishi Electric aims to continue  to improve the performance and quality of its SiC chips  and focus on the development of power modules  using proprietary module technologies. “This  mutually beneficial strategic partnership with Mitsubishi Electric represents a significant stride  in Nexperia’s silicon carbide  journey,” believes Mark Roeloffzen, senior VP  & general manager of Nexperia’s  Bipolar Discretes business group. “Mitsubishi  Electric has a strong track record as a supplier of technically proven SiC  device and modules. Combined with Nexperia’s high quality standards and  expertise in discrete products and packaging, we will certainly generate  positive synergies between both companies - ultimately enabling our customers  to deliver highly energy-efficient products in the industrial, automotive or  consumer markets they serve,” he adds. “Nexperia  is a leading company in the industrial sector with proven technologies for  high-quality discrete semiconductors,” comments Masayoshi Takemi, executive officer & group president, Semiconductor & Device at  Mitsubishi Electric. “We are delighted to enter into this co-development  partnership that will leverage the semiconductor technologies of both  companies.” 