AmpliTech launches new pHEMT MMIC-based products AmpliTech Group Inc of Hauppauge, NY, USA –  which designs and makes signal-processing radio frequency (RF) microwave  components for satellite communications, telecoms (5G & IoT), space,  defense and quantum computing markets – has introduced its latest new product  offerings, which include low-noise amplifiers, coaxial in-line LNAs, and  coaxial in-line band-pass filters from the AmpliTech Inc division. The new products are powered by pseudomorphic high-electron-mobility  transistor (pHEMT) monolithic microwave integrated circuit  (MMIC) technology developed by the AGMDC Division (AmpliTech Group Microwave Design Center). The performance, reliability,  cost-efficiency and versatility of the new product lines  complement the firm’s existing LNA product range. Available in a wide variety  of SKUs to cater to diverse industry needs, the expanded product line is now officially launched and ready  to receive customer orders. “We introduced our new passive product line earlier this year, and  now we are thrilled to introduce these new product lines to the market before  year-end to meet customer expectations. This is part of our ongoing strategy to  become a one-stop shop for  exceptional performance RF products,”  says AmpliTech Group’s CEO Fawad  Maqbool. “We are very proud to see the results of our R&D investments  becoming a reality; these new product lines all feature our own AmpliTech MMIC  technology from our AGMDC Division,” he adds. “In preparation and complementing our new product releases, we  have updated our website content, www.amplitechinc.com, and  coming live later this month, we expect to offer our customers a virtual e-commerce dashboard,  enabling unparalleled access to purchase our newly released products, be it  LNAs, passive products and MMIC  product lines,” continues Maqbool. “As  the RF industry continues to evolve, we believe that tools like our e-commerce  page are pivotal in bringing availability of our products to our valued  customers. We also plan for another critical new product release before the end  of the year from our AGTGSS Division, that addresses 5G massive MIMO, 64T64R ORAN, CAT B radios,  all featuring true G speeds (~1Gbps) becoming a reality and  available for pre-order. This is another pivotal announcement stemming from our  R&D investments that is intended to position us well for the years ahead.” 