Ascent’s CIGS technology achieves specific power 1900W/kg at AM0 Ascent Solar Technologies Inc of Thornton, CO, USA — which makes  lightweight, flexible copper indium gallium  diselenide (CIGS) thin-film photovoltaic (PV) modules that can be integrated  into consumer products, off-grid applications and aerospace applications — says that its  latest CIGS technology has achieved a measured specific power  (power-to-weight ratio) of 1900W/kg at AM0 (air mass 0,  the standard solar spectrum that represents solar radiation outside Earth’s  atmosphere, in the vacuum of space). The existing range of specific power  for crystalline solar technologies deployed in space is 100–400W/kg. The specific power rate is the most important factor  for solar applications where overall array mass is crucial, including those in  the aerospace sector, where the cost per kilogram is $2000–25,000  to launch payloads into low earth orbit (LEO). Higher-energy orbits such  as geosynchronous equatorial orbit (GEO) or cislunar space typically run an  order of magnitude more per kg,  with payloads intended for moon landing having been booked for over $1m/kg. Ascent says  that its thin-film solar is suitable for use in a space environment due to its  radiation resistance, resilience to physical damage, self-annealing, as well as  ultralight weight and flexibility. With recent advances in power density,  Ascent reckons it can provide meaningful power for space customers without the  increased cost of mass. There is a fixed amount of mass and volume available  for current mission launches and,  by increasing power density,  Ascent can increase the system power  available, with no increases to mass and volume. As a result, there is no  impact to launch cost, enabling space missions to get even more out of the existing  and growing number of orbital launch providers. “Ascent  streamlines the otherwise onerous process of assembly, integration and testing  for solar arrays for satellites and other spacecraft,” says CEO Paul Warley.  “Our Plug & Fly array solutions eliminate the scheduling impacts needed  to pick, place, wire, solder and test individual cells while simultaneously  reducing the cleanroom space  bottleneck that the process typically requires. Ascent technology can prevent  space vehicle and system integrators from  having to deal with thousands of credit-card-sized components and delicate  interconnects between them by instead providing them a single thin-film solar array  with pre-integrated and tested PV modules,” he adds. “Our most  recent performance improvements now make Ascent space products viable drop-in  replacement power generation  solutions that can also produce more power over the course of a mission,”  Warley continues. “This translates to saving multiple kilograms for mission  managers and spacecraft engineers balancing spacecraft power and mass budgets.” 