Vishay to acquire Nexperia’s Newport Wafer Fab for $177m Discrete semiconductor and passive electronic  component maker Vishay Intertechnology Inc of Malvern, PA, USA has  agreed to acquire Newport Wafer Fab in South Wales, UK from Nexperia B.V.  of Nijmegen, The Netherlands (a subsidiary  of Wingtech Technology Co Ltd) for $177m in cash. ATREG Inc, the  Seattle-based global firm for initiating, brokering and executing the exchange  of semiconductor manufacturing assets, served as Nexperia’s transaction  advisors. Located on 28 acres and the largest semiconductor manufacturing  plant in the UK, Newport is an automotive-certified, 200mm wafer fab that  supplies primarily automotive markets. Picture: Newport  Wafer Fab. “Under new leadership in early 2023, Vishay  set an ambitious goal of investing approximately $1.2bn in capacity over a  three-year period in order to position the company to seize the opportunities  created by the megatrends of e-mobility and sustainability needed for a Net Zero  economy,” says president & CEO Joel Smejkal. “While this transaction is  supplemental to our capex investment strategy, adding Newport Wafer Fab to our manufacturing footprint will be  instrumental to achieving our goal of expanding capacity for our customers and  to accelerating our SiC [silicon carbide] strategy,” he adds. “By agreeing to acquire Newport Wafer Fab, our  goal is to safeguard the positions of the highly skilled and dedicated  employees and to invest the necessary capital to set up production for our SiC  trench MOSFETs and diodes. With its solid balance sheet  and ample liquidity, Vishay will immediately bring stability and its reliable  cash flow generation to ensure  the facility becomes a fully operational and profitable fab” reckons Smejkal. “For Vishay, acquiring Newport Wafer Fab  brings together our capacity expansion plans for our customers in automotive  and industrial end markets as well as the UK’s strategic goal of  improved supply chain resilience.  In addition to expanding capacity, we intend to collaborate with the Compound Semiconductor Cluster in South Wales and to join with key stakeholders committed  to developing the semiconductor industry in the UK including university and  community partners in the UK and particularly South Wales,” concludes Smejkal. “We look forward to  welcoming Newport Wafer Fab’s employees into Vishay and to partnering with  local authorities and the Welsh and UK Governments to both ensure long-term  growth for the fab and deliver value to our customers and stockholders.” “Vishay’s board made a critical decision last  year to pivot the company toward profitable growth under new leadership,  leveraging the company’s solid cash flow generation, sound  operational capabilities and broad product portfolio,” notes executive chairman Marc Zandman. “A key element of this  strategic shift is the investment in technologies and incremental capacity to  position Vishay to capitalize on the megatrends in e-mobility and  sustainability. Acquiring Newport Wafer Fab demonstrates Vishay’s commitment to executing this strategic shift,”  he adds. “Nexperia would have preferred to continue the long-term strategy  it implemented when it acquired the investment-starved fab in 2021 and provided  for massive investments in equipment and personnel,” says Toni Versluijs,  country manager Nexperia UK. “However, these investment plans have  been cut short by the unexpected and wrongful divestment order made by the UK  Government in November 2022. The  UK Government’s order, in combination with a weakness in the global  semiconductor market, recently led us to announce the intention to reduce the  number of employees at the site by at least 100. The site needs clarity  about its future to avoid further losses,” he adds. “Of all options, this agreement with Vishay  is the most viable one to secure the future of the site as Vishay – like  Nexperia – has a solid customer base for the fab’s capabilities. For the site,  Vishay’s commitment to further make the Newport Wafer Fab a success story  is encouraging. Nexperia’s position with regards to the UK Government’s order  remains unchanged.” The closing of the Newport Wafer Fab transaction is subject  to UK government review, the purchase rights of a third party, and  customary closing conditions, and is expected to occur in first-quarter 2024. Nexperia states that, while working to ensure that all conditions  to the sale are met as soon as possible, it will continue to own and manage the  site and support the employees. 