Nickel nanoparticle lift to p-GaN-free deep-UV LEDs Hebei University of Technology and Advanced  Ultraviolet Optoelectronics Company Ltd in China  have reported the use of self-assembled nickel (Ni) nanoparticles to improve  the performance of deep ultraviolet (DUV,  wavelength less than 300nm) light-emitting diodes (LEDs) that do not contain DUV-absorbing gallium nitride (GaN) [Tong  Jia et al, IEEE Transactions on Electron Devices, published online 27 October  2023]. DUV LEDs are being developed for a wide  range of applications such as disinfection, air/water purification, indoor  plant growth, and phototherapy. Presently,  DUV is mostly generated using mercury lamps, which  are bulky, have low efficiency and lifetime, and release poisonous vapor when  broken. It is hoped that successful LED development will address each of these  drawbacks. The present efficiency for AlGaN DUV LEDs is less than 20% at 280nm wavelength. P-type GaN is often used as a hole injector  into DUV LEDs constructed otherwise from aluminium gallium nitride (AlGaN) alloys. The  alternative of using p-AlGaN contacts suffers from lower hole injection efficiency, but are more transparent to DUV. Such  p-GaN-free DUV LEDs have been achieved, and ways to  improve the various efficiencies that make up the overall energy efficiency  have begun to be explored extensively. The Hebei researchers’ device structure  with Ni nanoparticles (Device Ni) improves the  contact resistance between the metal and AlGaN on the p-side of the LED, and  also improves the light-extraction efficiency by reducing the total internal reflection arising from the high refractive index contrast between the AlGaN and other materials of the LED and  air. Both these factors reduce the chip temperature, adding to the improvement  in performance. The team explains: “We think that two factors  contribute to the lower chip temperature of  Device Ni. First, the nanoparticle array  causes more photons to be scattered out of the device. Hence, fewer photons are  absorbed by the device and, thus, less heat is generated. Second, as has been  previously discussed, the presence of Ni nanoparticles reduces ohmic contact resistance in Device Ni, thereby  decreasing heat production under identical current conditions, which results in  an improved self-heating effect.”  Figure 1: MOCVD epitaxy structure for  DUV LEDs. The material for the DUV LEDs was grown  using metal-organic chemical vapor deposition  (MOCVD) on c-plane sapphire (Figure 1). The  researchers processed the material into two device types: a reference, and a  device enhanced with Ni nanoparticles  (Figure 2). The first fabrications steps, common to  both devices, were to etch mesas with inductively coupled plasma, and then to deposit and anneal  titanium/aluminium/titanium/gold (Ti/Al/Ti/Au) for the n-electrode.  Figure 2: Process flowcharts for Ni nanoparticle device and reference. The reference device was completed by  depositing and annealing nickel/gold/nickel/gold (Ni/Au/Ni/Au) for the  p-electrode, and then evaporating a thick aluminium layer for the contact pads. The Ni device process preceded these final  steps by first depositing 2nm Ni, followed by 2 minutes annealing in nitrogen at 600°C, forming Ni nanoparticles. According to atomic force microscopy (AFM), the nanoparticles were on average 75nm high  and 300nm in diameter with around 50% fill factor. After these processes the sapphire  substrate was thinned down to 250μm with a view to chip singulation and encapsulation processing. In electrical testing the researchers found  that the Ni nanoparticle layer reduced the  contact resistance between the p-AlGaN and NiAu electrode, enabling higher  current injection into the device for a given  forward voltage: 6V for 100mA, compared with  7V for the reference device to achieve the same injection current. The researchers suggest that one effect of  the Ni nanoparticles is to relieve thermal stress so that the subsequent Ni layer does not form clusters. Without the nanoparticles, the first  Ni layer forms clusters during annealing, exposing parts of the overlying Au  film, which then makes contact with the p-AlGaN. The researchers comment: “It is difficult  for Au/p-AlGaN interface to form ohmic contact. We infer that when Ni nanoparticles are embedded between NiAu/p-AlGaN, the thermal stress  can be effectively relaxed. As a result, the Ni layer of NiAu on the Ni nanoparticles  will remain intact and not transfer into clusters. Thus, the p-AlGaN is still  fully covered with a Ni film after  annealing, which facilitates superior p-type ohmic contact for Device Ni.”  Figure 3: (a) Optical power and  wall-plug efficiency (WPE) versus injection current for Ni and reference  devices. (b) Peak wavelength versus injection current. The light output power reached 18mW at  200mA injection for the DUV LED with Ni nanoparticles, compared with 15.6mW for the reference device (Figure 3). The team comments: “Despite the fact that Ni has a high absorption  rate for DUV light, Ni nanoparticles can  also serve as scattering centers, leading to an improvement in optical power.” Both devices suffer from ‘roll-over’ from  increasing to decreasing light output power with increasing current injection.  The researchers attribute this to self-heating, which degrades the internal  quantum efficiency (IQE). The peak in output  power occurs at a higher current in the Ni nanoparticle LED, indicating a reduced self-heating effect compared  to the reference. Further indications of reduced self-heating was a reduced  wavelength red-shift with increasing current, and a shorter wavelength for a  given current, compared with the reference. At 200mA, the wall-plug efficiency  (WPE) for the Ni device was 1.3%, compared with  1% for the reference. The researchers also performed two-dimensional  finite-difference time-domain (2D FDTD) simulations of the Ni and reference device structures, which suggested that the light extraction efficiency would increase if the Ni nanoparticle diameter were reduced to 120nm with a 600nm period,  reducing the fill factor. The team also reports lifetime studies up  to 170 hours. The Ni device showed a slower deterioration in light output power. The  reduced self-heating results in a lower chip temperature and hence longer life performance. 