Europe’s integrated photonics firms call on EU to support building resilient supply chain for PICs CEOs from eight of Europe’s largest  integrated photonics companies have presented Thomas Skordas (deputy director-general of DG Connect), Lucilla Sioli (director for artificial intelligence & digital industry at DG Connect) and Werner Steinhögl (head of sector, Unit  for Microelectronics & Photonics for the European Commission) with a plan  to build a resilient European supply chain for  photonic integrated circuits (PICs). The plan calls for €4.25bn in funding over  eight years and a range of recommendations to enable the European integrated photonics  industry to become a global leader and have the ability to supply EU customers  autonomously. Enabling the creation of smaller, faster and more  energy-efficient devices, photonic integrated circuits are  already being used in high-speed telecoms and datacoms, data security, autonomous vehicles,  quantum communication and agriculture. The group states that the low level of EU  manufacturing capacity and over-reliance on Asia threatens the EU’s economic  security and resilience. Currently, less than 6% of the manufacturing of indium phosphide (InP)  and silicon nitride (SiN) PICs is undertaken in the  European Union (EU) and less than 4% of global  assembly, testing and packaging capacity resides in Europe. Furthermore,  research by Dutch photonics ecosystem PhotonDelta highlights that competitor  nations are making concerted efforts to acquire EU PIC technologies and assets  along with seeking stakes in EU SME companies in the EU PIC supply chain. The CEOs Rudi de Winter of XFAB (Germany/France),  Johan Feenstra of SMART Photonics  (The Netherlands), Felix Grawert of Aixtron (Germany),  Albert Hasper of PHIX Photonics Assembly (The Netherlands),  Inigo Artundo of VLC Photonics  (Spain), Jean-Louis Gentner of Almae (France), Thomas Hessler of Ligentec  (Switzerland/France) and Ewit Roos of PhotonDelta  (The Netherlands) unveiled the plan at PIC Summit Europe  in front of more than 500 members of the global photonics and semiconductor  communities. The proposal makes a number of recommendations including: “Over the past few years we have been  repeatedly reminded that the world is becoming a more volatile and unpredictable  place. Global supply chains have  been shown to be fragile, and over-reliance on one country for critical  components is an economic and security risk. This is particularly true of the  semiconductor industry,” says SMART Photonics’  CEO Johan Feenstra. “Photonic integrated circuits have  the capacity to transform a huge range of industries. It is also fundamental to  the advancement of some of the most exciting new technologies. Currently, the  EU has a vibrant and growing integrated photonics  industry. However, without volume manufacturing, testing & packaging  capacity, we are incredibly vulnerable to global events and the policies of  competitor countries,” he adds. “Our proposal outlines a number of  practical steps that the EU can take over the next decade to ensure the  continued growth and security of the integrated photonics  industry. For just over €4bn we can build our supply chain and  ensure the future of an industry which has the capacity to generate hundreds of  billions of Euros each year for decades to come,” Feenstra concludes. 