Ascent raises its CIGS PV efficiency from 15.5% to 17.55% in just six weeks Ascent Solar Technologies Inc of Thornton, CO, USA says  that the latest test results of its proprietary flexible  copper indium gallium diselenide (CIGS) thin-film photovoltaic (PV) technology  show an increase in efficiency from 15.5% to 17.55%. In August,  Ascent began working to optimize both the manufacturing processes and chemistry  of its CIGS technology. This has resulted in a steady increase in efficiency  that began with a jump from 10.8% to 15.2% on 5 September; an additional  increase to 15.5% on 12 September; and now to 17.55% just six weeks later. The latest  efficiency increase can be attributed to the addition of rubidium fluoride to  the chemistry, combined with improvements to Ascent’s manufacturing process.  The improvements will result in an increase in specific power in the space  environment from 1900W/kg to 2100W/kg at AM0. This enables the solar energy  system to provide additional power with the same flexible, resilient and  lightweight footprint, says the firm. Ascent plans  to further improve its CIGS technology efficiency through the incorporation of  Zn(O,S), a thin film that is considered to be a most promising candidate  for a cadmium-free buffer layer, as well as broader chemistry optimization.  Utilizing Zn(O,S) increases efficiency and specific power as it expands  interactions with light in the blue spectrum, as well as helps counter  degradation through improvements after light soak. “We have now  reached the minimum efficiency (17%) that many satellite companies require, a  milestone achievement for our team and a critical step toward commercialization  for our space product development program,” says CEO Paul Warley. “We are well  positioned for adoption as one of the most flexible, light and suitable solar  solution to reduce waste in space,” he reckons. Backed by 40 years  of R&D, 15 years of manufacturing experience, and a comprehensive IP  and patent portfolio, Ascent provides flexible thin-film solar panels for use  in environments where mass, performance, reliability and resilience matter. Its  PV modules have been deployed on space missions, multiple airborne vehicles,  agrivoltaic installations, in industrial/commercial construction as well as a  range of consumer goods. 