QPT appoints GaN specialist QPT of Cambridge,  UK says it has expanded its team with the addition of another GaN expert, Tony  Astley. Astley joins QPT  as a business advisor. Prior to the appointment, he was director of EMEA sales at  GaN Systems Inc for nine years, and before that he was at Texas Instruments in  several senior sales roles for twenty-nine years. Photo: Tony  Astley. “Sometimes a  technology comes along that requires us to rethink what is possible. QPT’s  revolutionary approach to power conversion, unleashes the full potential of GaN  and opens up vast new markets for which there is no current solution. Having  worked with GaN for nine years, I understand the market needs and I also know  that much of the market does not currently realise the amazing benefits that  this unleashed GaN could bring to their applications. QPT’s next generation GaN  solution is an elegant and revolutionary way for customers to quickly and  easily get the absolute maximum benefits of this remarkable technology.” Rob Gwynne, founder  and CEO of QPT, said, “We have created a breakthrough technology that solves a  massive problem in power electronics by enabling GaN to be run at high  switching speeds to deliver its promised power savings without the problems of  RF and overheating that currently limit it to speeds of 100KHz. These  challenges mean that SiC is often viewed as the preferred choice for future high-speed,  high-power applications. Our technology changes that future to one based on GaN  and Tony’s extensive sales contacts and experience will help us rapidly get the  story out there.” Established in  2020 as an independent power electronics company, QPT specialises in the  delivery of high-performance, efficient, and cost-effective solutions to solve  the challenges of designing with gallium nitride transistors. QPT technology  unlocks the potential of GaN to provide huge power savings across a wide range  of electrical devices. GaN  transistors are the future of power electronics due to their ability to operate  at higher frequencies for switching on and off, says the firm. A slow switching  transition wastes energy because, during the switching time, when the  transistor is neither on nor off, it dissipates huge amounts of power,  resulting in energy losses and overheating issues. The higher the switching  speed, the less time is spent in transition, and the less energy is lost. GaN  transistors can quickly transition from on to off at 1-2ns instead of 20-50ns  for Si and SiC transistors. However, achieving maximum performance is  challenging in many high-voltage, high-power applications without significant  RF interference issues or overheating. QPT says that  its qGaN module solution enables the GaN transistors to be run at their full  potential of up to 20 MHz with nanosecond switching to deliver better  operational precision. QPT’s technology in a Variable Frequency Drive (VFD)  enables motors to be driven at up to 99.7% efficiency at peak load with hardly  any decrease in efficiency at lower loads. This is a challenge for conventional  designs today, where the efficiency can drop off rapidly at lower loads. In  addition to superior efficiency, the higher convertor frequency significantly  reduces the size and weight of the power electronics, by 10x or more, as well  as reducing the manufacturing costs due to the removal of expensive filters  that are normally required to protect the motor. Application areas include heat  pumps, industrial motors, HVAC systems and Electric Vehicles. 