Swift Current Energy extends First Solar relationship with 500MW order First Solar Inc of Tempe, AZ, USA has agreed to supply Boston-based utility-scale clean energy developer, owner and operator Swift Current Energy with 500MW of Series 7 cadmium  telluride (CdTe) thin-film photovoltaic (PV) modules. Swift Current Energy previously placed orders  for 3.3GW of First Solar modules in  2022. This latest order, which was booked prior to the release of First Solar’s third-quarter 2023 results on 31 October, will see modules delivered  between 2027 and 2028. Swift Current Energy has commercialized more  than 2.5GW of renewable energy  projects, has a project pipeline of more than 10GW of solar, wind and energy storage, and owns 1.4GW of renewable energy projects currently in operation or  in advanced construction. “As we  continue to progress our US development pipeline, certainty of pricing and  supply is essential to ensuring that we deliver capacity as planned,” says Swift Current Energy’s co-founder & CEO Eric  Lammers. “This latest agreement with First Solar  supports our effort to build a resilient, competitive value chain, while supporting investments in  domestic manufacturing, along with the jobs and economic benefits that come  with it.” First Solar’s modules are claimed to set  industry benchmarks for quality, durability, reliability, design and  environmental performance, with the Series 7  modules having the lowest carbon and water footprint of any commercially  available PV module. The firm is reckoned to be the first PV manufacturer to  have its product included in the Electronic Product Environmental  Assessment Tool (EPEAT) global registry for sustainable electronics. “Swift Current  Energy has chosen to extend its partnership with First Solar to 2028,  entrusting a significant portion of its development pipeline to our  technology,” notes First Solar chief commercial officer Georges  Antoun. “Their decision speaks volumes to the competitive value that we are  able to deliver in terms of energy, certainty of pricing and supply, and an  advanced PV module that is responsibly produced in America, for America.” First Solar is  the largest solar manufacturer in the Western Hemisphere, with about 6GW of  operational, fully vertically integrated nameplate capacity in the USA. The  firm has embarked on an expansion strategy that is forecast to grow its  footprint to 14GW of nameplate capacity in the USA and 25GW globally by 2026.  In addition to its third Ohio factory, commissioned earlier this year, First Solar  expects to further expand its footprint in the state by 0.9GW while building  new manufacturing facilities in Alabama and Louisiana, each with an expected  annual nameplate capacity of 3.5GW. The Alabama  and Louisiana facilities, which are expected to represent over $2bn in  investment and are forecast to begin commercial shipments in 2024 and 2026  respectively, are designed to produce the Series 7 modules ordered by  Swift Current and expected to be made with 100% US-made components  identified in the current domestic content guidance issued by the US  Department of the Treasury. First Solar anticipates that, once its  Louisiana factory is completed and ramped, Series 7 modules will account  for over two-thirds of its annual domestic nameplate capacity. Series 7  modules currently produced at the firm’s Ohio facility are already manufactured  with US-made glass and steel. 