Lumentum acquiring Cloud Light to accelerate data-center speed and scalability Lumentum Holdings Inc of San Jose, CA, USA (which designs and makes optical and  photonic products for optical networks and lasers for industrial and consumer  markets) has entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Cloud Light  Technology Ltd of Hong Kong (which designs  and makes optical modules for automotive sensors and data-center interconnect  applications) in a transaction worth about $750m (subject to certain adjustments). At the time of closing (expected by the end of 2023, subject to  receipt of regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions), this  will be paid in cash (from Lumentum’s balance sheet) and the assumption  and substitution of outstanding unvested Cloud Light options. The  transaction has been unanimously approved by the boards of directors of both  firms and by Cloud Light’s shareholders. Lumentum expects the acquisition to accelerate its push into the  fastest growing segments of the multi-billion-dollar opportunity for optical  modules used in cloud computing data-center infrastructure. Cloud Light  has a track record of developing and manufacturing the highest-speed  connectivity solutions at the leading edge of new and rapidly growing  technology transitions. Nearly all of Cloud Light’s more than $200m  revenue in the last 12 months was derived from 400G or higher-speed  transceiver sales. In the most recent quarter, over half of Cloud Light’s  optical transceiver revenue was derived from 800G modules. With the acquisition, Lumentum reckons that it will be well  positioned to serve the growing needs of cloud and networking customers,  particularly those focused on optimizing their data-center infrastructure for  the demands of artificial intelligence and machine learning (AI/ML). Lumentum expects  its more comprehensive product and technology portfolio to enable customers to  more effectively manage the escalating compute and interconnect requirements of  AI workloads. The combination also brings what are reckoned to be best-in-class  design and assembly, test and packaging capabilities together with Lumentum’s  global scale and customer reach. “With Cloud Light, we are making a strategic investment to  significantly expand our opportunities in the cloud data-center and networking  infrastructure space,” says Lumentum’s president & CEO Alan Lowe. “Cloud Light  provides us with the highest-speed transceiver solutions at scale and  complements our advanced component capabilities. This results in a broad  product and technology portfolio that addresses a wide range of cloud operator  needs,” he adds. “This transaction will deliver substantial, long-term value to  our stockholders, with immediate earnings accretion and accelerated revenue  growth,” he believes. “We founded the company with a vision that our deep expertise in  high-volume precision manufacturing would result in a superior value  proposition for cloud data-center customers,” says Cloud Light founder  & CEO Dr Dennis Tong. “Having worked closely with the technology teams  within leading cloud operators, we believe we can build upon our success to  date and further accelerate cloud data-center growth by combining Lumentum’s  advanced photonic integration and transmission technologies with our highly  automated packaging and manufacturing processes.” The acquisition is expected to enable  Lumentum to: The transaction is expected to be immediately accretive to  Lumentum’s non-GAAP earnings per share and is expected to more than double the  firm’s cloud data-center infrastructure revenue in the 12-month period  following the transaction close. In the last 12 months, over 90% of Cloud Light’s  revenue was derived from 400G and higher-speed products and, in its  most recent quarter, over half of its optical transceiver revenue was  derived from 800G transceiver products. 