ELEMENT 3–5’s novel ACCELERATOR 3500K provides single-crystal AlN for mass production ELEMENT 3–5 GmbH says that its innovative Next Level  Epitaxy (NLE) technology enables the reduction of the total manufacturing cost,  energy and environmental impact of light-emitting diodes (LED), high-electron-mobility  transistor (HEMT) for high-power applications, and life-time expanding layers  in batteries. The Baesweiler (Germany) based company has unveiled  its ACCELERATOR 3500K for the mass production of aluminium nitride (AlN) epitaxial thin films as starting layer on  silicon, sapphire or silicon carbide (SiC). The ACCELERATOR 3500K is said to represent a paradigm  shift in the production of wide-bandgap semiconductors. The epitaxy system follows  a modular design and is for the first time in-line ready — it includes the  carrier loading, substrate cleaning followed by growth of single-crystal AlN  layers.  Photo: ELEMENT 3-5´s ACCELERATOR 3500K. “The ACCELERATOR 3500K lives up to its’ name. The  system accelerates the production on the customer side significantly. It is equipped with combined plasma sources and ion  gun enabling the fabrication of AlN layers characterized by single-crystal  quality at processing temperatures below 300°C that enable a 90% saving in  energy consumption,” says ELEMENT 3–5’s managing director Dr Volker Sinhoff.  “Additionally, its wafer carrier is designed to accommodate 35 x 300mm, 70 x 200mm,  135 x 150mm or 300 x 100mm wafers during each processing cycle, making a  tenfold increase in capacity compared to a conventional metal-organic chemical  vapor deposition (MOCVD) reactor. Compared with the MOCVD process the  incorporation efficiency of the molecules is distinctly higher (from 35% to  >80%), which leads to significantly reduced consumable costs. In addition, metal-organic compounds  and toxic gases are avoided completely. All in all, an advantageous solution  for the user to enter new markets like micro-LEDs for  displays or in mature markets like GaN LED and GaN power (HEMT). The mini- and micro-LED boom is just getting started  and we expect a steep rise in the HEMT market in the future, 
  supported by our Next Level Epitaxy,” he adds. “Customers  anticipate even greater performance while also guaranteeing 
  cost-effectiveness. We provide customers with the  ability to take the pole position with the help of our cutting-edge  technology.” 