Malvern Panalytical acquires key technologies Spectris group  firm Malvern Panalytical of Malvern, UK, a supplier of analytical  instrumentation, has acquired the product line for six X-ray  diffraction (XRD) products from Freiberg Instruments GmbH. Founded in 2005  as a university spin off from TU Bergakademie - University of Resources,  Freiberg Instruments’ products cover a broad spectrum of applications in fields  such as semiconductor, microelectronics, photovoltaic, dosimetry, medical  research, luminescence dating, X-ray diffraction and material research. Semiconductor  manufacturing relies on a variety of crystalline substrate materials, which are  required to create thin wafers. As production processes become more advanced,  and production volumes continue to grow, these wafers need to be produced  quickly and efficiently, and precise crystal orientation and offcut angles are  increasingly important, says Malvern Panalytical. The acquired XRD systems  allow rapid orientation of ingots and wafers, accelerating and simplifying the  preparation of semiconductor substrates before epitaxy or lithography. This  enhances yield, minimizes waste and reduces costs which supports our customers’  sustainability ambitions, adds the firm.

  “The addition of these specialized products to  our analytical portfolio enables innovative crystal orientation control. When  combined with Malvern Panalytical’s global presence and expertise, this  provides a significant boost to the semiconductor wafer industry. This is a  hugely exciting time for Malvern Panalytical, and we are looking forward to  help realize the future of semiconductor metrology for our customers”, said Lars  Grieger, Business Development Manager of Semiconductor Metrology at Malvern  Panalytical. Kay Dornich,  CEO/Owner, Freiberg Instruments GmbH, said: “Our XRD solutions, with their  ultra-fast Omega Scan technology, have consistently demonstrated their value to  semiconductor manufacturers. Their speed, robustness, and reliability make them  an excellent addition to Malvern Panalytical's portfolio and I’m excited to see  these unique technologies made available to customers across the globe. At  Freiberg Instruments, we will continue to support our existing customers and  maintain our offering of specialized solutions, including those for automated  workflows, which complement Malvern Panalytical’s newly acquired X-ray  diffraction instruments.” Mark Fleiner,  President, Malvern Panalytical, added: “The acquisition of these six X-ray  diffraction instruments from Freiberg Instruments GmbH  underpins our commitment to our semiconductor customers and demonstrates our  desire to become the chosen instrument supplier within this exciting area of  analysis.” 