Centrotherm clean solutions acquired by Busch Vacuum Solutions Vacuum pumps and systems manufacturer Busch Vacuum  Solutions of Maulburg, Germany has acquired industrial gas abatement systems firm,  centrotherm clean solutions. It joins another recent acquisition, Pfeiffer  Vacuum, as part of the Busch Group. “The acquisition of centrotherm clean solutions is a crucial  step in our long-term strategy to advance sustainable technologies and  solutions together with Pfeiffer Vacuum,” said Sami Busch, Co-CEO and Co-Owner  of Busch Vacuum Solutions. “The innovative gas abatement systems from  centrotherm clean solutions are a perfect addition to the Busch and Pfeiffer  Vacuum product portfolio. Integrating the companies under one umbrella will  enable us to serve our customers even better in the future and offer complete  sustainable vacuum solutions. Additionally, the companies already collaborate  successfully on individual projects in the field of service. Therefore, the  customers of centrotherm clean solutions will also benefit from our worldwide  service network in more than 45 countries.” Centrotherm clean solutions manufactures gas abatement  systems, which are primarily used in the semiconductor industry but also, for  example, in the production of MEMS, LEDs, solar cells, and flat panel displays.  In addition to industrial customers, the firm also has customers within research  institutions and universities. Products include standardized gas abatement  systems as well as individual customized systems. With dry bed absorbers, wet  scrubbers, thermal gas treatment systems and particle filters, the product  range includes all common gas abatement technologies. With headquarters in Blaubeuren, Germany, centrotherm  clean solutions is present at other locations throughout Europe, and in America  and Asia. It employs over 300 people worldwide. Busch has confirmed that  centrotherm’s headquarters and production site in Blaubeuren, as well as all  worldwide locations and jobs, will be retained following the acquisition.  Photo: Centrotherm’s campus in Blaubeuren (Credit:  centrotherm clean solutions). “Centrotherm clean solutions has achieved significant  growth thanks to its technological leadership in recent years. In order to  continue this successful development, a strategic partner is of great benefit,”  emphasizes the founder and former owner of centrotherm clean solutions, Robert  Hartung. “I found this partner in the Busch family and their company Busch  Vacuum Solutions. The technologies and products from Busch, Pfeiffer Vacuum and  centrotherm clean solutions complement each other perfectly. The timing of the  acquisition is just right, as the companies can now strategically prepare for  upcoming investments in new semiconductor factories.” 