SuperLight Photonics secures seed funding in investment round with DeepTechXL and oost NL SuperLight  Photonics of Enschede, the Netherlands — a spin-off from the University of Twente that is  developing a wideband laser light source for measurement and detection applications — has completed  a seed investment round led by DeepTechXL in collaboration with regional development  agency Oost NL (operating  on behalf of the Province of Gelderland, the Province of Overijssel, and the  Ministry of Economic Affairs & Climate). SuperLight Photonics reckons that it will hence  be able to further develop its platform technology into unique products and  (sub)systems. The wideband laser is based on the patented platform  technology of founder Haider Zia, who was previously a researcher at the  University of Twente, specializing in integrated and nonlinear optics. The firm  says that, by using colors in light to transmit information, the technology has  numerous potential applications, such as creating 3D images of eyes for opticians or aiding dermatologists in  detecting skin cancer. Beyond the medical sector, laser technology can be used,  for example, to detect small cracks in oil or gas pipelines or to enhance  optical safety sensors in smart cars. “We aim for a swift market entry, relying on the robust  photonics ecosystem in the Netherlands and Twente,” says CEO Cees Links. “In the coming years,  SuperLight Photonics is poised for significant growth, market establishment,  and further scaling. We eagerly anticipate market responses to our upcoming  product launches at the PIC Summit Europe photonics event on 7–8 November in Eindhoven,” he adds. “We are delighted with our two new investors, both active  within the Dutch photonics ecosystem. Their deep knowledge and extensive  networks, both nationally and internationally, are an invaluable addition,”  comments chief technology officer Dr Haider Zia.  “They support the continued development of new knowledge within our photonics  applications, emphasizing our commitment to technological advancement,” he  adds. “The unique technology aligns with our goals of achieving  societal objectives such as faster, more cost-effective data generation and disease detection. In the long run, it could also  contribute to more energy-efficient data exchange,” says DeepTechXL partner Ron Maurer. “Through Innovatiefonds Overijssel, a fund of the  Province of Overijssel managed by Oost NL, we can contribute to the solid  establishment and growth of a unique photonics company,” reckons Jacob Issa, investment manager Tech at Oost NL. “Ultimately, this technology can make a substantial  contribution to critical challenges of our time in various sectors. Through  further connections and collaborations with photonics companies in Twente, the  Netherlands, and beyond, SuperLight Photonics can rapidly evolve in the coming  years.” 