Smartphone shipments on track for recovery after only slight decline in Q3 Worldwide smartphone shipments declined by 0.1% year-on-year to  302.8 million units in third-quarter 2023, according to preliminary data  from the International Data Corporation (IDC) Worldwide Quarterly Mobile Phone Tracker. Although  macro-economic uncertainties linger as markets struggle with soft demand,  inflation and geopolitical tensions, healthy inventory and the slower pace of  decline are encouraging some vendors to increase shipments. “We are seeing a strong ramp up of shipments in emerging markets  by vendors like Xiaomi and Transsion,” notes Nabila Popal, research director  with IDC’s Mobility and Consumer Device Trackers. “While this is a good sign of  approaching recovery, vendors must keep a close eye on sell-through to avoid  falling into excess inventory again, as demand is still weak in many regions,”  he adds. “Meanwhile, on the other end of the spectrum, we see Apple growing in  all regions except China, where it’s facing renewed competition from Huawei as  well as heightened macroeconomic uncertainties that are causing consumers who  once used to rush for the latest iPhones to pause and think more carefully  about their purchases.”  China saw shipments declined for a tenth consecutive quarter, falling  by 6.3% year-on-year in Q3/2023. Rising youth unemployment, the ongoing  real-estate crisis and deflation have significantly dampened consumer spending  and the broader macroeconomic environment in China. Elsewhere, shipments in  Europe, Japan and the USA fell by 8.6%, 5.3% and 1.1%, respectively. However,  emerging markets like the Middle East and Africa (MEA), Latin America  (LA) and Asia/Pacific (excluding Japan and China) saw Q3/2023 shipment growth  of 18.1%, 8.2% and 1.3%, respectively. “The continued growth in the high-end market feels  counter-intuitive considering the economic challenges we are seeing across the  globe,” says Anthony Scarsella, research director, Mobile Phones at  IDC. “Yet the high-end continues to flourish due to generous trade-in and  financing options in many developed markets,” he adds. “However, as consumers  choose premium models, the refresh cycle will continue to extend. Superior  build quality, increased storage, premium features, and longer support cycles  drive buyers towards the high-end as these devices last well beyond most  affordable models.” 