NREL sets efficiency record of 27% for a single-junction GaAs cell grown by D-HVPE The US Department of Energy’s (DOE’s) National Renewable Energy  Laboratory (NREL) says that it has been able to extract some extra efficiency out of its solar cells through careful design of the  materials in the cell stack (Kevin Schulte, John Simon, Myles Steiner and  Aaron Ptak, ‘Modeling and Design of III-V Heterojunction Solar Cells for Enhanced Performance’, Cell Reports Physical Science vol 4, issue 9,  20 September 2023, p101541). Relying on  both computational and experimental studies, the researchers grew a gallium arsenide (GaAs) heterojunction solar cell using dynamic hydride vapor phase epitaxy (D-HVPE) with a certified  efficiency of 27%, a record for a single-junction GaAs cell grown using this technique. The research  is the latest effort by NREL researchers to make III-V solar cells more affordable for terrestrial  applications rather than the more established space applications. D-HVPE offers  the potential to be a lower-cost method of synthesizing these cells compared  with incumbent techniques.  Picture:   NREL senior scientist  Aaron Ptak provides an overview of the D-HVPE lab to Secretary of Energy  Jennifer Granholm (right) and Nancy Haegel, director of the National Center for  Photovoltaics at NREL. (Photo by  Werner Slocum, NREL). The research  provides a roadmap to improving the performance of solar cells via optimization of the doping and bandgap of the  emitter device layer to minimize the impact of defects on device efficiency.  The results are theoretically applicable to materials beyond III-Vs that use  heterojunctions such as silicon, cadmium telluride,  or perovskites. “With whatever  method you choose to make them, solar cells will always contain some defects  thanks to entropy. By using a heterojunction structure, with carefully designed  emitter properties, you can minimize the adverse impact of these defects on  efficiency, even though you haven’t done anything to reduce their  concentration,” says Kevin Schulte of NREL’s High-Efficiency Crystalline  Photovoltaics group. “Furthermore, the relative efficiency improvement scales  with defect concentration. While the baseline D-HVPE cell already had a high  efficiency, a device that had a higher defect concentration  would receive a higher relative efficiency boost  using the methods described in the paper.” Along with the  GaAs base layer, the solar cell relied on an emitter layer of  gallium indium arsenide phosphide (GaInAsP) to make up  the heterojunction. Researchers modeled the effect of varying the zinc doping  density and bandgap of the emitter layer, which is realized by varying the  relative concentrations of gallium, indium, arsenic and phosphorus during layer  growth, on cell efficiency. The  modeling identified optimal choices for these two parameters that maximize  device efficiency. The researchers then synthesized cells using the guidance of  the modeling and achieved model-predicted efficiency enhancements. The rear  heterojunction solar cell that  served as a baseline used an emitter consisting of GaInP and had a reported  efficiency of 26%. By reducing the doping in the emitter and changing its  composition from GaInP to the lower-bandgap GaInAsP, the efficiency increased  to 27% even though the rest of the device was exactly the same. The benefits  of heterojunctions are generally known, although experimental demonstrations of  III-V heterojunctions are limited to a handful of combinations, the researchers  note. “We took this concept that was known but not quantified this way and  mapped it out,” Schulte says. “We showed the modeling matches what we see  experimentally, showing that it is a powerful tool for solar cell design.” 