NS Nanotech awarded $1m grant from NSERC to develop nanoscale LEDs and lasers NS Nanotech Canada Inc  in Montréal, Québec (founded in November 2022) has been awarded a two-year Alliance Grant  from the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC)  for research into the development of nanoscale light-emitting diodes (LEDs) and  lasers. NSERC and parent firm NS Nanotech Inc of Ann Arbor, MI, USA (founded in 2017) have committed a total of CDN$1m in funding and  in-kind contributions. The firm co-applied for the grant with professor Songrui  Zhao of McGill University in Montréal. NS Nanotech scientists are collaborating with  researchers in professor Zhao’s laboratory in the Department of Electrical and  Computer Engineering to fabricate a new generation of nanoscale gallium nitride (GaN) LEDs. Zhao holds  numerous patents and is advancing the state of the art in molecular beam epitaxy (MBE) and other  foundational technologies designed to enable orders-of-magnitude improvements  in costs and efficiency over existing LEDs. “We appreciate this substantial support from  the Canadian government for the groundbreaking work initiated by professor Zhao and McGill University in  the fast-moving worlds of nanotechnology, LEDs and lasers,” says Seth  Coe-Sullivan, CEO & co-founder of NS Nanotech. “Together we are on a mission to  develop the world’s first efficient submicron-scale nano-LEDs that will have  the potential to disrupt the $120bn global display market.” NS Nanotech Canada’s R&D Centre (opened in March) is leveraging exclusive  licenses to a portfolio of patents owned by the University of Michigan and  McGill University to develop the world’s first efficient submicron-scale  nano-LEDs and nano-lasers. Commercialization of the laboratory technologies  should help to enable next-generation displays for TVs, mobile phones, smart watches, augmented-reality  glasses, and other applications including disinfection with ultraviolet light. This summer, the combined team successfully  fabricated nanowires on semiconductor wafers, demonstrating the potential for  growth of nanoscale LEDs using standard commercial manufacturing processes. It  was the first time that a deep ultraviolet (DUV) lithography process had been  utilized to grow uniform GaN nanowires on an optically patterned substrate. “Our collaboration with NS Nanotech’s R&D  Centre is accelerating our laboratory work developing an entirely new way of  creating light-emitting diodes through growth of nanostructures on  semiconductor materials,” says Zhao. “The NSERC Alliance Grant will help enable  additional breakthroughs that our combined team expects to deliver over the  next two years.”  Picture:       Researchers at McGill University and NS Nanotech Canada utilized a standard deep ultraviolet (DUV) optical lithography process  on a 4-inch wafter (left) to create a patterned mask (center), enabling uniform  growth of submicron-scale gallium nitride nanowires on an optically patterned substrate for the  first time. (Source: NS Nanotech  Canada). The NSERC Alliance Grant is the latest  milestone in the joint R&D program. Senior students from Zhao’s lab have  been collaborating with NS Nanotech scientists since early 2023 following  the incorporation of NS Nanotech Canada Inc. In March, NS Nanotech received matching  funding from McGill University’s I&P Partnership Program to support its  work with the scientists in Zhao’s lab. Also, in September, NS Nanotech Canada opened its first office  adjacent to the McGill campus. “McGill University and Montreal are emerging  as important centers of advanced high-technology research, development and  commercialization,” reckons NS Nanotech Canada's chief operating officer Derrick Wong. “Academic–industrial collaborations like ours will be an important means of  ensuring that groundbreaking semiconductor technologies move successfully ‘from  lab-to-fab’ and into commercial markets.” 