ams OSRAM’s shareholders approve €800m rights issue At an extraordinary general meeting (EGM)  meeting on 20 October, shareholders of ams OSRAM GmbH  of Premstätten, Austria and Munich, Germany approved (“with a large  majority and without any contestation”) a proposed rights issue of €800m, expected to take place this fall/winter  2023/24 (subject to market conditions). “We are very pleased that our shareholders trust in  our recently announced financing plan and the strategic direction we are  taking,” comments CEO Aldo Kamper. “Approving the capital raise, which is  intended primarily for the reduction of debt, is the centerpiece for creating a  solid financial base on which we can execute our revised strategy to create  sustainable value.” To strengthen its balance  sheet long-term for structural growth (targeting  ‘investment grade’ profile by 2026), ams OSRAM plans to secure a total of €2.25bn through the combination of a capital  increase, new corporate bonds, and other financing instruments. “Firstly, we  have sharpened our strategy towards structural growth. Secondly, we are  cleaning-up our semiconductor portfolio by exiting non-performing businesses.  Thirdly, we are making our organization efficient and accountable,” says Kamper.  “The foundation for ‘re-establishing the base’ of ams OSRAM is having a  solid and sustainable capital structure. With the holistic financing plan we  present today, we aim to put our balance sheet on a solid footing, such that we  can fully concentrate on executing our strategy for growth, higher profitability  and monetizing innovation.” The financing  follows a multi-stage plan. The rights issue of €800m  will be combined with an issuance of senior unsecured notes in € and US$, which are expected to raise a total  of about €800m. The volume of the capital  increase is underwritten by the banks HSBC, Morgan Stanley and UBS. In  addition, ams OSRAM expects to execute certain asset transactions — such as sale & lease-backs  of corporate assets, to keep overall borrowing cost lower in a high-interest  environment — in winter 2023/24 to raise a  further €300m. The total financing  package is expected to be completed in 2024 with an additional €350m in a mix of debt instruments, such as  unsecured notes, bi-lateral debt facilities, or other instruments – the mix  will be subject to market conditions. “Our  comprehensive plan consists of new equity to reduce gross and net debt as well  as new senior notes to refinance additional outstanding debt with a  well-balanced maturity profile,” says chief financial officer Rainer Irle. “We will also use  additional financing instruments, such as sale & lease-back transactions,  with the aim of bringing the company on track to reach a healthy  investment-grade leverage.” The financing  plan creates a base for the strategic realignment of ams OSRAM, which is  focusing its semiconductor portfolio on its profitable core business with  intelligent sensor and emitter components. The firm hence aims to expand what  it claims is its leading position in the relevant automotive, industrial and  medical sectors. This will be complemented by selected offerings for the  consumer electronics markets, such as micro-LEDs. The Automotive &  Specialty Lamps segment continues to be an important part of the group after  its portfolio was cleaned up and is delivering sustainable double-digit  adjusted EBIT margins. The new  strategy and the associated efficiency program ‘Re-establish the Base’  aim to align the group with the focused semiconductor portfolio and to  strengthen profitability with expected run-rate savings of about €150m by the end of 2025. ams OSRAM says  that it is well on the track to achieve this. The organizational adjustments to  strengthen accountability and to make the set-up leaner (e.g. reducing from  four to three business units) are close to being fully implemented.  Preparations are progressing for the exit of the passive optical components  business, which is no longer part of the core business. Initial talks with  interested parties are promising, says the firm. Potential proceeds from a sale  of the non-core semiconductor portfolio could also be used to reduce leverage. ams OSRAM  intends to sell its entire self-held 12.86 million of treasury shares  prior to the start of the rights issue. Under Austrian corporate law, the  treasury shares are not entitled to subscription rights in the event of a  capital increase. Essentially, the sale is a technical measure to avoid automatic  dilution. Consequently, ams OSRAM  intends to repurchase treasury shares in the market after execution of the  rights issue to cover outstanding obligations under its long-term incentive  programs. Details of this public share buyback program will be determined by  the management and the Supervisory Board and communicated in due time. The firm plans to issue senior unsecured notes (a mix  of €, US$  and potentially staggered maturities) totaling about €800m in 2023. The  new issuance is interlinked with the rights issue. Any new bond issuance could also be combined  with a tender offer for the outstanding senior notes to optimize the debt structure and interest costs and allow  existing bondholders to roll over their risk exposure. In view of the increased interest rate level  compared with 2020, the company plans asset transactions including, for example, selling  certain company assets and subsequently leasing them back. The implicit  borrowing costs of such transactions are typically lower compared with straight  debt financing  and thus will be designed to optimize overall borrowing costs under the planned  financing package. These transactions are planned to amount to €300m. Further  details will be published once contracts have been signed. ams OSRAM’s  core relationship banks are expected to extend the currently undrawn €800m revolving credit facility (RCF) by one year to September 2026. The  RCF mainly serves as a backstop for the outstanding put options of the  OSRAM Licht AG minority shareholders. The put options (including  compounded interest) stood at €748m as of  30 June, representing about 17% of total shares outstanding. The company has received confirmation for grants and  support by state entities showing confidence in its innovation and industrialization  power — e.g. funding from the IPCEI (Important Project of Common European Interest) and  the Malaysian Investment Development Authority  (MIDA) — and  will continue to apply under eligible schemes globally. All governmental grants  combined, the firm expects a high triple-digit million EUR amount of support  until 2033. Such support is typically tied to certain milestones that need to  be achieved per scheme. These fundings allow the company to accelerate the  related technology developments, as they typically support R&D expenditures  or partially cover investments in property, plant & equipment and are  reflected in the company’s business plans. Upon completion of all financing measures, ams OSRAM will have  strengthened its balance sheet, with an expected pro-forma equity ratio (i.e. the ratio  of equity to total assets) of about 30% (compared with 18% in June)  and a smoother debt maturity  profile. The  financing would result in a pro-forma group leverage ratio (as of second-quarter  2023) below 2x, defined as net debt/adjusted EBITDA. The firm will work towards fulfilling all requirements for achieving  investment grade over time. After Dr Wolfgang  Leitner resigned from the firm’s Supervisory Board in early September due to  personal reasons, the EGM on 20 October also elected Arunjai Mittal to the  board in a by-election. With over 30 years of experience in the industry,  Arunjai is expected to further strengthen the technology and industry expertise  of the Supervisory Board. 