Fully in-situ roughening for ultrathin III-V solar cells Colorado School of Mines and the National  Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) in the USA report on fully in-situ  fabrication of light-trapping structures to improve III-V solar cell performance [Allison N.  Perna et al, J. Appl. Phys., v134, p135307, 2023]. The structures were generated by texturing  the final growth surface through vapor phase etching and re-deposition in the solar cell material growth chamber. The resulting  roughened surfaces have high broadband scattering, trapping light for longer in  the cell. The researchers were particularly  interested in developing III-V cells with ultrathin absorber layers (less than  400nm). For space applications, this enables higher radiation tolerance and specific power  (W/kg), and reduced material content, growth time,  and (hence) cost. The team comments: “Lower manufacturing  cost may help expand the market for III-V solar cells  to include terrestrial applications where high efficiency and high specific power are paramount.” Another advantage of thin cells is higher  open-circuit voltage due to reduced diffusion recombination. Unfortunately,  currents tend to be reduced by increased optical transmission loss. To overcome  this, light-trapping schemes need to be implemented. Such schemes are often  implemented ex-situ, but as such increase processing times and cost, not least  in terms of needing extra capital equipment. The materials for the Colorado/NREL solar  cells were grown using atmospheric-pressure 650 °C dynamic hydride vapor phase  epitaxy (D-HVPE) on n-type (100)-oriented gallium arsenide (GaAs:Si) substrates with a 6 ° offcut  toward (111) A. The cells consisted of a  single junction grown in an inverted sequence, enabling flip-chip fabrication  (Figure 1).  Figure 1: Cell schematics of (a)  as-grown inverted cell structure and (b) processed cell structure  with nominal layer thicknesses. The researchers comment: “Inverted cell  growth enables in-situ texturing of the rear surface immediately following growth  without removal of the sample from the reactor and without requiring subsequent  growth on a roughened surface.” The team also points out that D-HVPE is a  high-throughput and potentially lower-cost epitaxial growth technique, and that  combining D-HVPE with a fully in-situ texturing method further supports III-V  industrial throughput. 