GlobalFoundries gains $35m US Government funding to accelerate 200mm GaN-on-Si chip production GlobalFoundries (GF) of Malta, NY, USA (which has  operations in Singapore, Germany and the USA) has been awarded $35m in federal  funding from the US government to accelerate the manufacturing of its gallium nitride  (GaN) on silicon semiconductors at its facility in Essex Junction, Vermont. The funding brings GF closer to  large-scale production of GaN chips, whose ability to handle high voltages and  temperatures enable “game-changing” performance and efficiency in 5G and 6G cellular  communications for infrastructure and handsets, automotive and industrial  Internet of Things (IoT), as well as power grids and other critical infrastructure. With the new $35m in funding, awarded by the  Department of Defense’s Trusted Access Program Office (TAPO), GF plans to purchase  additional tools to expand development and prototyping capabilities, moving  closer to at-scale 200mm GaN-on-silicon manufacturing. As part of the  investment, GF plans to implement new capabilities for reducing the exposure of  GF and its customers to supply chain  constraints of gallium, while improving the speed of development, assurance of  supply and competitiveness of US-made GaN chips. The funding builds on years of collaboration  with the US government — including $40m in  support from 2020–2022 — that  leverages GF’s Vermont team and their 200mm semiconductor manufacturing  experience, and applies it to GaN-on-silicon manufacturing. The federal funding “will solidify our state’s  position as a leader at the forefront of manufacturing next-generation chips,”  reckons Senator Peter Welch. “It’s critical we support investment in this  industry here in Vermont and in the US — both  for our local economic growth and for our national security,” he adds. “This strategic investment continues to  strengthen our domestic ecosystem of critical dual-use commercial technologies,  ensuring they’re readily available and secure for DoD utilization,” says The Honorable  Christopher J. Lowman, Assistant Secretary of Defense for Sustainment.” In concert  with key partners, we’re proactively shaping the future of our defense  systems,” he adds. “GaN on silicon is an ideal technology for  high-performance radio frequency, high-voltage power switching and control  applications for emerging markets, and it’s important for 6G wireless  communications, industrial IoT,  and electric vehicles,” says president  & CEO Dr Thomas Caulfield.  “GF has a longstanding partnership with the US government, and this funding is  critical to move GaN-on-silicon chips closer to volume production. These chips  will enable our customers to realize bold new designs that push the envelope of  energy efficiency and performance  of critical technologies we rely on every day.” GF’s facility in Essex Junction,  Vermont, near Burlington, was among the first major semiconductor manufacturing  sites in the USA. Currently, about 1800 GF staff work at the site. GF-made  chips are used in smartphones, automobiles, and communications infrastructure  applications around the world. The facility is a DMEA-accredited Trusted Foundry and manufactures secure chips in  partnership with the US Department of Defense, for use in some of the nation’s  most sensitive aerospace & defense systems. 