Infineon signs multi-year agreement to supply power semiconductors to Hyundai/Kia Infineon  Technologies AG has signed a multi-year agreement to build and reserve  manufacturing capacity to supply silicon carbide (SiC) as well as silicon  (Si) power semiconductor modules and chips to South Korea-based Hyundai  Motor Company and Kia Corp until 2030. Hyundai/Kia will support the  capacity build-up and capacity reservation with financial contributions. “Infineon  stands as a valued strategic partner, boasting steadfast production  capabilities and distinct technological prowess within the power semiconductor  market,” comments Heung Soo Kim, executive VP & head of the Global  Strategy Office (GSO) at Hyundai Motor Group. “This partnership not only  empowers Hyundai Motor and Kia to stabilize its semiconductor supply but  also positions us to solidify our leadership in the global EV market,” he adds. “As a trusted  partner, we are proud to advance our long-term partnership with Hyundai/Kia,”  says Peter Schiefer, president of Infineon’s Automotive Division. “We  contribute premium products of high quality, our system knowledge and  application understanding combined with continued investments in manufacturing  capacity to address the increasing demand for automotive power electronics.”  Picture:   From left to right: Jason Chae (VP of the  Semicon Strategy Group at Hyundai Motor Company), Heung Soo Kim (executive VP & head of Global Strategy Office at Hyundai Motor Group), Peter Schiefer (president of  Infineon's Automotive Division), Peter Schaefer (executive VP, sales, marketing and distribution of  Infineon’s Automotive Division). Infineon’s  power semiconductors are key enablers for the transition to electro-mobility.  This transition will lead to strong market growth for power semiconductors,  especially those based on wide bandgap materials like SiC. With the significant  expansion of its fabrication plant in Kulim, Malaysia, Infineon is building  what it is reckoned will be the world’s largest 200mm SiC power fab,  strengthening its role as a high-volume supplier to the automotive industry. In  line with Infineon’s multi-site strategy, the Kulim facility will complement  the firm’s existing manufacturing capacity in Villach, Austria, and further  capacity expansions in Dresden, Germany. 