Innoscience signs MEV Elektronik as European distributor Gallium nitride-on-silicon  (GaN-on-Si) power solutions firm Innoscience  (Zhuhai) Technology Co Ltd of Suzhou, China has signed a pan-European  distribution agreement with Germany-based MEV Elektronik Service GmbH. Founded in December 2015 with main investment from CMBI, ARM, SK  and CATL, Innoscience first established a mass-production 8-inch wafer  line for gallium nitride-on-silicon (GaN-on-Si) devices in Zhuhai National  Hi-Tech District in November 2017, then inaugurated a new facility in Suzhou in  September 2020. The firm now claims to be the largest integrated device  manufacturer (IDM) fully focused on GaN technology. Innoscience delivers GaN  power devices that can be used in applications including cloud computing,  electric vehicles (EV) and automotive, portable devices, mobile phones,  chargers and adapters. MEV is a  distributor/stocking representative and manufacturers’ representative that  employs 20 engineers to support customers in Germany as well as in Central and  Eastern Europe, and has an in-house laboratory where the technical solutions  can be developed in partnership with customers. It also focuses on logistics  and services that are tailored to meet individual customer’s needs, and builds  partnerships with customers and suppliers. “GaN has  applications everywhere, so we need distribution partners who can offer high  levels of technical support,” says Dr Denis Marcon, Innoscience’s  general manager, Europe. “MEV is a very well-established company and  we are sure that existing and new customers will find the expertise they need  within MEV’s extensive FAE and logistics teams,” he adds. “We like to  partner with leading suppliers, and Innoscience is the largest 8-inch  GaN-on-silicon wafer supplier in the world, with two fabs that are already  delivering discrete and integrated GaN solutions,” comments MEV’s marketing manager  Wiho Herkenhoff. “We are excited to offer InnoGaN and integrated SolidGaN  devices including technical support to our customers, and to show them the high  levels of efficiency that these new parts enable a power conversion system  to achieve.” 