Mojo Vision almost doubles Series A funding round to $43.5m Six months after an initial Series A close  of $22.4m,  Mojo Vision Inc of Saratoga, CA, USA — which is developing and  commercializing micro-LED display technology for consumer, enterprise and  government applications —  has announced a final close of its $43.5m new Series A investment round to advance its micro-LED display technology  across applications and bring it to commercialization. The funding round is led  by long-time investors New Enterprise Associates (NEA) and  Khosla Ventures, and new investor Vanedge Capital, with participation from  Shanda Grab Ventures, Dolby Family Ventures, Advantech Capital, Liberty  Global Ventures, Drew Perkins, Fusion Fund,  Open Field Capital and Knollwood Investment Fund. “Mojo  Vision has shown tremendous momentum as it has expanded its focus on micro-LED  development over the past year,” says CEO Nikhil Balram. “The funding round  drew remarkable interest from investors and exceeded our expectations, with our  final figure doubling the amount of our initial raise in this round.” The  funding follows several company milestones including demonstrating  the world’s highest-density (14K ppi) true red micro-LED micro-display and successful light-up of the first-ever 300mm blue  GaN-on-silicon micro-LED array wafer. “Micro-LED  displays are vital for high-performance, energy-efficient screens required in  the next generation of AR/VR headsets, smart wearables, and even automotive  applications,” says Vanedge Capital’s managing partner and new Mojo Vision board member Moe Kermani.  “Mojo Vision’s pioneering advancements in core micro-LED technology, display  design, and manufacturing, places them in a strong position to dominate the  market,” he comments. The  micro-LED market is expected to see substantial  growth, with estimates indicating 51.7 million units will be shipped by 2030. Mojo Vision developed  proprietary High Performance  Quantum Dot (HPQD) technology  to engineer what is claimed to be the world’s smallest and most efficient RGB  pixels. The technology is expected to significantly improve the performance of  augmented reality (AR) and mixed reality (XR) advanced  displays. “We  are thrilled to further our investment in Mojo Vision, having been with the  company from the very start,” says Shanda’s chairman & CEO Tianqiao Chen.  “This successful funding round signals the industry’s and venture community’s  shared belief in the potential of their pioneering work in advanced displays,”  he adds. Mojo  Vision developed what as claimed to be the  world’s smallest, densest micro-LED display for dynamic content in 2019.  The firm’s micro-LED technology delivers tiny  pixels with ultra-high brightness, high efficiency, and a slim form factor. “Mojo  Vision developed a world-class AR display the size of a grain of sand and is  now extending that same technology across the industry for the next generation  of displays,” says Mojo Vision’s co-founder & chairman Drew Perkins. 