GaN Systems’ co-founder Geoff Haynes joins QPT as advisor Power electronics company Quantum Power  Transformation (QPT) of Cambridge, UK (which was founded in 2020) says that Geoff Haynes, who co-founded GaN Systems Inc of Ottawa, Ontario, Canada (a fabless developer of  gallium nitride-based power switching semiconductors for power conversion and  control applications) is joining its team as an advisor. QPT’s technology “solves the thermal and RF problems that GaN is  now facing that currently form an insurmountable major barrier for the  widespread use of GaN in high-power, high-voltage, hard-switching  applications,” says Haynes. “I visited the company’s laboratory and was so  impressed with its solutions that I am joining the company as an advisor to  help them rapidly deploy this technology to the market. With it, GaN can now  operate at the high frequencies needed to deliver significant power savings  and open up applications worth billions as it provides a far superior  performance and efficiency than silicon carbide,” he adds. Haynes is a “world authority on GaN and knows the challenges that  it currently faces that limit its use,” comments QPT’s founder & CEO Rob  Gwynne. “He immediately understood how our solutions and patents unlock the  next phase in the evolution of GaN to become the enabling technology of choice  for power electronics,” he adds. “Having him join and effectively putting  his name behind QPT’s qGaN  solutions is an incredible endorsement not only for customers but also for our  upcoming Series A funding round.” GaN transistors can quickly transition from on to off at 1–2ns  instead of 20–50ns for silicon and SiC transistors, notes QPT. However,  achieving maximum performance is challenging in many high-voltage, high-power  applications without significant RF interference issues or overheating. QPT says that its qGaN module  solution enables the GaN transistors to be run at their full potential of up to  20MHz with nanosecond switching to deliver better operational precision. The  firm’s technology in a variable-frequency drive (VFD) enables motors to be  driven at up to 99.7% efficiency at peak load with hardly any decrease in  efficiency at lower loads. This is a challenge for conventional designs today,  says QPT, where the efficiency can drop off rapidly at lower loads. In addition  to superior efficiency, the higher converter frequency significantly  reduces the size and weight of the power electronics by 10x or more as  well as reducing the manufacturing costs due to the removal of expensive  filters that are normally required to protect the motor. Application areas  include heat pumps, industrial motors, HVAC systems and electric vehicles. 