Transphorm launches 650V SuperGaN FETs in TOLL packages with on-resistances of 35m Ω, 50m Ω and 72m Ω Transphorm Inc of Goleta, near Santa Barbara, CA, USA — which designs and manufactures  JEDEC- and AEC-Q101-qualified gallium nitride  (GaN) field-effect transistors (FETs) for high-voltage power conversion — has  introduced three 650V SuperGaN FETs in TOLL packages with on-resistances of 35m Ω, 50m Ω and 72m Ω. Transphorm’s TOLL package  configuration is industry standard, so the SuperGaN TOLL FETs can be used as  drop-in replacements for any E-mode TOLL solution. The new devices also offer  Transphorm’s proven high-voltage dynamic (switching) on-resistance reliability  that is generally lacking in leading foundry-based E-mode GaN offerings, it is  claimed. Currently available to sample, the three 10mm x 12mm surface-mount  devices (SMDs) support higher-power applications operating within an average  range of 1–3kW. These power systems are typically found in high-performance  segments such as computing (AI, server, telecom, data center), energy and  industrial (PV inverters, servo motors), and other broad industrial  markets which, collectively, have a current global GaN total addressable market  (TAM) of $2.5bn. The FETs are said to be optimal solutions for today’s rapidly  expanding AI systems that rely on GPUs requiring 10–15  times the power of traditional CPUs. Transphorm’s high-power GaN devices are already widely supplied to  leading customers who use them to power in-production high-performance systems  including data-center power supplies, high-power gaming PSUs, UPSs,  and micro-inverters. These applications can also be supported by the TOLL  devices, as can electric-vehicle-based DC-to-DC converters and on-board  chargers, with the underlying SuperGaN die already automotive (AEC-Q101)  qualified. Because the normally-off D-mode platform pairs the GaN HEMT with a  low-voltage silicon MOSFET, the SuperGaN FETs are said to be easy to drive with  commonly used off-the-shelf gate drivers. They can be used in various hard- and  soft-switching AC-to-DC, DC-to-DC and DC-to-AC topologies to increase power density  while reducing system size, weight and overall cost. 