CGD’s ICeGaN HEMTs awarded ‘Best Demo’ at Innovation Zone of TSMC’s Europe Tech Symposium Cambridge GaN Devices Ltd  (CGD) — which was spun out of the University of Cambridge Department of  Engineering’s Electrical Power and  Energy Conversion group in 2016 and  designs, develops and commercializes power transistors and ICs that use GaN-on-silicon substrates — says that  its ICeGaN GaN HEMT  system-on-chip (SoC) was awarded ‘Best Demo’ at the Innovation Zone  of the 2023 Europe Technology Symposium of Taiwan  Semiconductor Manufacturing Co  (TSMC). CGD’s ICeGaN technology,  which has entered high-volume production for global customers using TSMC’s GaN  process technology, is bringing the complexity of a typical external  driving circuit into the GaN HEMT, monolithically integrated. This  concept reduces the component count at the PCB level and is said to  significantly improve the robustness and reliability of the power transistor  and the whole system, while enabling the user to couple it with a gate driver  of choice. This concept is easily scalable to higher power and voltages, which  CGD is actively pursuing. ICeGaN is claimed to be an industry first: GaN eMode  HEMTs can be driven like a silicon MosFET. Recognizing the differentiation that  it brings to the market, ICeGaN was voted ‘Best Demo’ by visitors to the  Innovation Zone, TSMC’s showcase for start-up customers’ cutting-edge  products at its largest annual event in Europe. “CGD recognizes TSMC’s leadership in  high-voltage GaN – we believe that they have the most mature and reliable  process in the industry, which is why we chose to have our proprietary ICeGaN  technology SoCs made there. Consequently, we are also delighted to win TSMC’s  prestigious award for innovation,” says CEO  & co-founder Giorgia Longobardi. “Innovation is one of CGD’s key  values, and we aim to achieve a leadership position through technology. The  award is also a very real demonstration of the success that our two companies  are achieving in bringing game-changing, innovative GaN technology to the  market,” she adds. “TSMC is excited to cooperate with CGD to  deliver its easy-to-use 650V ICeGaN GaN transistors in high volume to  companies working on diverse applications worldwide,” says TSMC Europe’s  general manager Paul De Bot. “We look forward to close collaboration  with them in the field of GaN power semiconductor technology.” ICeGaN H2 single-chip eMode GaN HEMTs — CGD’s second-generation of 650V GaN ICs  recently launched on the market — have  demonstrated record low losses in No Load – Light Load  operations, which is key for many consumer and industrial applications.  Together with the H1 portfolio, CGD has demonstrated what is claimed to be the  highest efficiency and reliability in the entire range 65W to 3kW, both at the  TSMC European event and in several conferences worldwide. CGD aims to extend  its portfolio in the near future. ICeGaN includes a monolithically  integrated GaN interface circuitry within the power transistor chips. This  simplifies their use, enabling them to be driven like a silicon MOSFET, without  the need for special gate drivers, complex and lossy driving circuits,  a negative voltage supply or external clamping components. This design results  in devices that are said to be extremely rugged and reliable, while achieving  the highest performance among available eMode GaN technologies. 