ATU partners with Tyndall and Ulster University to explore economic opportunities of EU Chips Act On 18 September at the Atlantic Technological University  (ATU) campus in Letterkenny, Ireland, a multi-stakeholder event spearheaded by  ATU, in partnership with Tyndall National Institute and Ulster University (UU),  explored the economic opportunities presented by the newly adopted EU Chips Act. Recent semiconductor supply chain disruptions have led  to a critical supply shortage, exposing Europe’s over-reliance on imports.  Through the Chips Act, designed to boost self-sufficiency, the European Union  aims to double its current global market share to 20% by 2030. Using case studies and panel conversations, ‘NW of Ireland  and the Opportunity in the Global Semiconductor Value Chain’ brought  together business leaders, policymakers, academia and elected officials to  explore how Ireland can position itself as a leader in photonics and  semiconductor research and manufacturing while simultaneously addressing the  deficits in high-value employment and research infrastructure in the Northwest  of Ireland. Industry representatives in attendance included Eblana Photonics,  Cirdan, Yelo, Causeway Sensors, Allstate, Kelsius, Firecomms, and Nuprint. During the event, invitees could engage with speakers and  international experts who shared their knowledge and expertise including Dr Wyn  Meredith, chair of the South Wales Compound Semiconductor Cluster,  and Valerie Moreau of the Laval Mayenne Technopole in France. “This cross-border initiative unites universities, research institutes  and industry across Ireland to catalyse research, develop new technologies,  drive productivity, create jobs, increase STEM diversity, and strengthen the  regional economy,” says ATU  president Dr Orla Flynn. “With  the generous support of stakeholders including the IDA [Ireland’s foreign direct investment agency], Enterprise Ireland, local authorities, and industry  partners, this consortium has the potential to play a pivotal role in boosting  the competitiveness of the semiconductor industry across the island of Ireland,”  he believes. “This is an exciting knowledge  exchange opportunity to further cooperation between third-level institutions in  the Northwest,” comments professor Liam  Maguire, pro vice-chancellor Research at UU, who highlights how the  collaborative provision of cross-border education could significantly boost the  regional semiconductor talent pool.  “Through collaborative research and development initiatives, as well as  training and education programs, we can support resilient semiconductor supply chains  that foster innovation and investment into our communities through an inclusive  workforce,” he adds. Speaking on behalf of the Smart Nano NI cluster, led by data storage company Seagate Technology, Matt Johnson, senior VP wafer process engineering and systems, commented: “This new all-island collaboration will  complement the Smart Nano NI cluster in developing advanced prototyping  and smart manufacturing technologies across Northern Ireland. Key to success  will be the combined expertise of our companies and the advancement of talent  and research infrastructure. We are delighted to be involved in this exciting  project which has the potential to put the border region on the global map for  semiconductor technology,” he adds. “The recent adoption of the EU  Chips Act presents a unique and timely opportunity  for Ireland to bolster its leadership in semiconductors and photonics,” reckons  Tyndall’s CEO professor William Scanlon. “Ireland must act now  to build on its well-established strategic advantages in the sector, and  mobilizing public–private R&D  partnerships to lead and leverage cumulative expertise is critical for our  future economic success,” he adds. “Our alliance with ATU  and UU represents a significant step forward in our ongoing efforts to  accelerate north-south research and innovation in support of a diverse and  growing, internationally competitive semiconductor industry.” 