US DoD awards $39.4m for NC State-led Microelectronics Commons regional innovation hub CLAWS North Carolina State University has been awarded $39.4m from  the US Department of Defense to serve as the leader of a regional innovation  hub in wide-bandgap semiconductors. The regional hub ‘Commercial Leap Ahead for Wide-bandgap  Semiconductors’ (CLAWS) also includes one university partner, N.C. A&T  State University, as well as six industry partners: Wolfspeed, Coherent Corp,  General Electric, Bluglass, Adroit Materials and Kyma Technologies Inc. The funding is part of $238m invested through the ‘Creating  Helpful Incentives to Produce Semiconductors (CHIPS) and Science Act’ for the  establishment of eight Microelectronics Commons regional innovation hubs  spread across the USA, as announced on 20 September by Deputy Secretary of  Defense Kathleen Hicks. “NC State is honored to lead a Microelectronics Commons  regional innovation hub to use our breadth and depth of expertise to create  better wide-bandgap semiconductors that are so important for our nation’s  defense,” says chancellor Randy Woodson. “We’re thankful for the work of those  who developed and passed the ‘CHIPS and Science Act’ that supports these  regional hubs, and for the regional partners who will collaborate on future  research and discovery in this critical high-tech sector.” As well as wide-bandgap semiconductors (offering higher voltage  and temperature capacity than silicon chips, for applications in power electronics,  as well as RF and wireless devices for communications and radars, as well as  photonic devices for sensing, communications, artificial intelligence, and  future quantum technology applications) the hub will also explore  next-generation ultra-wide-bandgap materials with even greater voltage and  temperature capabilities, including diamond and gallium oxide electronics. “Leveraging NC State’s expertise through campus resources  like PowerAmerica and the FREEDM Systems Center alongside traditional strengths  in electrical and computer engineering as well as computer science should  help make this leap ahead for wide-bandgap semiconductor technology a reality,”  believes Mladen Vouk, vice chancellor for research and innovation at  NC State. “The effort is focused on ‘lab to fab’ capability for wide-bandgap  semiconductors and is about building capability to make them here in the USA  and help ensure domestic supply,” says John Muth, Distinguished Professor of  Electrical and Computer Engineering and the primary investigator on the award.  “The hub has a nucleus of members that are building this capability, but we  will also have hub affiliates and future partners that will be able use the  equipment and capability of the hub for Department of Defense-funded and  commercial projects.” The hub will also enhance the ability to perform a wide range of  fundamental research that is core to the university’s science and extension  mission, Muth adds. “The technologies hold the potential to enable future electric vehicles,  power grid technologies, 5G/6G, quantum technologies and artificial intelligence  applications,” says Fred Kish, MC Dean Distinguished Professor of Electrical  and Computer Engineering and the director of the new hub. “They are also  important for national security applications by providing energy efficiency,  size, weight, power and performance advantages in critical application areas  including weapons systems, warfighter outfitting,  position/navigation/timing, biotechnical and medical, materials processing,  displays, and a host of additional defense needs.” NC State will work with hub partner N.C. A&T State  University and community colleges to build technical expertise in  semiconductors across the state, Muth adds. 