Nexperia and KYOCERA AVX Salzburg to co-produce 650V SiC rectifier module for power applications In a deepening of their existing, long-term partnership, Nexperia B.V. of Nijmegen, the Netherlands (a  subsidiary of Wingtech Technology Co Ltd) and Austria-headquartered automotive electronic component  maker KYOCERA AVX Components  (Salzburg) GmbH are to jointly  produce a new 650V, 20A silicon carbide  (SiC) rectifier module for high-frequency power applications ranging from 3kW  to 11kW power stack designs, aimed  at applications such as industrial power supplies,  electric vehicle (EV) charging stations, and on-board  chargers. Since space-saving and weight reduction are key requirements for  manufacturers of next-generation power applications, the compact footprint of  the new SiC rectifier module is expected to help to maximize power density,  reducing the amount of required board space  and lowering the overall system cost.  Thermal performance is optimized using a combination of top-side cooling (TSC)  and an integrated negative temperature  coefficient (NTC) sensor which monitors the device temperature and provides  real time feedback for device or system-level prognosis and diagnosis. The  rectifier module has a low-inductance package to enable high-frequency  operation and has been qualified to operate with a junction temperature of up  to 175°C.  “This collaboration between Nexperia and KYOCERA AVX combines cutting-edge silicon carbide semiconductors with  state-of-the-art module packaging and will allow Nexperia to better serve the  market demand for power electronic  products which offer exceptionally high levels of power density,” says Katrin  Feurle, senior director of Nexperia’s SiC Product Group.  “The release of this rectifier module will represent the first step in what is  envisaged as a long-term SiC partnership between Nexperia and KYOCERA AVX,” she  adds. “We are delighted to further extend our successful partnership  with Nexperia into the production of silicon carbide modules for power  electronics applications,” comments Thomas Rinschede, deputy VP at KYOCERA AVX Components’  Sensing & Control Division. “Nexperia’s manufacturing expertise combined  with KYOCERA module know-how make a compelling offering for customers looking  to achieve higher power densities  using wide-bandgap semiconductor technology.” Nexperia expects samples of the new SiC rectifier modules to be  available in first-quarter 2024. 