EFFECT Photonics verifies fully integrated InP PIC in digital ITLA for coherent applications EFFECT Photonics b.v. – a spin off from  the Technical University of Eindhoven (TU/e) in The Netherlands that develops DWDM optical system-on-chip  components for mobile networks and data-centers – has announced  verification of its fully integrated tunable laser InP-based photonic  integrated circuit (PIC), the core enabler powering its digital Pico  Integrated Tunable Laser Assembly (pITLA). As a core component of coherent optical systems enabling dense  wavelength division multiplexing (DWDM), tunable lasers allow network  operators to expand their network capacity without expanding the existing fiber  infrastructure. With this milestone, the firm’s tunable laser InP-based  PIC has passed a series of tests showing required performance items outlined by  IEEE Std. 802.3-2022, 100GBASE-ZR. EFFECT Photonics says that, unlike tunable laser assemblies  currently available, the core of its digital pITLA is a tunable laser  implemented fully as a monolithic integrated InP PIC. This enables  advantages such as the ability to achieve a compact footprint, higher assembly yields,  and ease of integration into pluggable form factors. The InP PIC is  claimed to be the only solution to integrate the gain section, laser cavity,  optical amplifier and wavelength locker into one chip. By incorporating  these functions on a single chip and including the control functions in the  assembly, the user can easily communicate and control the laser by simply  providing digital commands. “In the last decade, the industry has made impressive strides in  reducing the size of crucial coherent optical functions, making way for  digital coherent modules. EFFECT Photonics pITLA sets a new precedent in  photonic integration by eliminating the need for external micro-optics for  control of tunable lasers,” claims CEO Roberto Marcoccia. “Our monolithic approach  maintains all vital functions while drastically reducing the device’s overall  size to a smaller form factor previously unattainable.” Purposely designed to simplify the design of small-form-factor  pluggables, the integrated InP PIC is the foundation of EFFECT Photonics’  new pITLA, providing a blend of power, cost-effectiveness and compactness. It  paves the way for the cost-efficient design of coherent pluggables, opening up  new possibilities for the industry, claims the firm. At the 49th European Conference on Optical Communications  (ECOC 2023) in Glasgow, Scotland, UK (2–4 October), EFFECT Photonics is  exhibiting in Stand 547 and presenting ‘Power and Integration: InP for  Coherent Transceivers at the Network Edge’ at 12.20pm in the ‘Modules/Sub-systems’  Market Focus Session on 2 October. 