imec presents SiGe BiCMOS optical receiver achieving gross data rate of 200Gbps At the European Conference on Optical Communication  (ECOC 2023) in Glasgow, Scotland, UK (2–4 October), researchers from IDLab, a team at Ghent  University, Belgium from Leuven-based microelectronics research center  imec, have presented an optical receiver achieving a gross data rate  of 200Gbps. Their approach, combining a SiGe BiCMOS traveling-wave  electronics integrated circuit and a silicon photonics germanium  photodetector, offers not only speed but also scalability: two prerequisites  for meeting exploding data-rate needs. “Currently, the most  performant optical datacom transceivers operate at speeds up to 800Gbps, using  for example 8 x 100Gbps channels, but the  field is envisioning doubling the channel capacity to 200Gbps to reduce the  transceiver complexity, cost and power consumption while improving manufacturing yield,”  says Peter Ossieur, program manager  for high-speed transceivers at imec’s IDLab and professor at Ghent University. Ossieur is leading a team  of researchers working towards high-speed integrated circuits for photonics  applications. His team has now achieved a gross data rate of 200Gbps by  co-integrating a traveling-wave SiGe BiCMOS transimpedance amplifier (TIA) with  a silicon photonics  Ge photodetector. Aside from the speed, the  use of mainstream SiGe BiCMOS makes the technology more scalable and therefore  affordable. “An alternative to reach such speeds are InP electronics, which is a more expensive and less  scalable technology,” says Ossieur. “SiGe BiCMOS allows us to  integrate more functionalities and the chips can also be manufactured at higher  volumes.” If optical transceivers are  to keep up with exploding data rates,  all building blocks  need to handle higher speeds. The team demonstrates their result in a setup  with a silicon photonics  Ge photodetector from imec’s integrated silicon photonics platform (iSiPP), targeted at the  telecom, datacom and medical diagnostics  industries. “The new optical receiver  represents one of the many steps imec is taking to ready its silicon photonics platforms for  demanding 200Gbps-and-beyond applications,” says Joris Van Campenhout, fellow  & program director  optical I/O  at imec. “These latest results represent one more data point showcasing the  capability of imec’s silicon photonics  platform (iSiPP) to operate at lane rates of 200Gbps, a key requirement for upcoming  pluggable and co-packaged optics,” he adds. The work received support  through European Union’s Horizon 2020 projects POETICS (No 871769) and NEBULA (No 871658). 