OpenLight partners with Spark to scale design services OpenLight of Santa Barbara,  CA, USA (which launched as an independent company in June 2022, introducing the  first open silicon photonics  platform with heterogeneously integrated III-V lasers) has announced a  strategic partnership with Spark Photonics of Waltham, MA, USA, which provides  pure-play end-to-end integrated photonics design, layout and consulting services  across silicon, silicon nitride, indium phosphide and lithium niobate  platforms. Spark will now offer design and layout  services using the OpenLight process design kit (PDK) with the IPKISS  design layout and simulation software suite of Luceda Photonics of Dendermonde,  Belgium. The expansion of design services increases the number of designs  that OpenLight can support at any one time on the Tower Semiconductor  PH18DA process, reducing time to market for photonic integrated circuits  (PICs) and expanding the silicon photonics industry’s reach to drive  advancements across applications. “With the integration of  industry-leading expertise and resources from OpenLight and Luceda coupled with  best-in-class design services from Spark, we are fostering a new era for  customers to tape in MPW engineering and production wafer run designs  directly to Tower,” says OpenLight’s Dr Adam Carter. “This partnership  empowers our customers to address distinct design needs, diversify their design  portfolio, and resolve compatibility challenges.” The OpenLight PDK  incorporates both active and passive components, enabling access to silicon photonics  with heterogeneous integration. Mutual customers now have an array of choices  from an EDA tool perspective to ensure first-time success in design  verification and implementation. “This partnership will  play a pivotal role in our company’s vision to grow the integrated photonics  ecosystem,” reckons Spark Photonics’ CEO Dr Kevin McComber. “Working with  OpenLight and Luceda positions us to meet the evolving needs of integrated photonics  trailblazers. Customers stand to derive significant benefits from our  collective capabilities, including reduced cost and faster turnaround,” he  adds. “This collaboration  enhances our long-term goal to enable cutting-edge PDK-based design services  and meet the demands of diverse applications,” says Luceda Photonics’ chief  technology officer Dr Pieter Dumon. OpenLight recently introduced its Photonic  Application Specific Integrated Circuits (PASIC) technology, which  incorporates both passive and active components onto a single silicon photonics  chip, resulting in significant improvements in performance and reliability.  With the OpenLight PDK, customers can now design their own PASIC chips, offering  greater flexibility and customization options. OpenLight and Spark Photonics design and  layout services are available now. 