DustPhotonics unveils first merchant single-chip 800G DR8 photonic integrated circuit At the European Conference on Optical Communication  (ECOC 2023) in Glasgow, Scotland, UK (2–4 October), DustPhotonics of Modi’in, Israel — which was founded in 2017 and develops silicon photonics  technology and solutions — has announced what is claimed to be the  industry’s first merchant single-chip 800G DR8 photonic  integrated circuit (PIC). DustPhotonics has multiple live demos of this  product highlighting its operation in several applications at booth #644. The 800G PIC is  a single-chip solution suitable for DR8 and DR8+ applications, providing eight  optical channels independently modulated at 100Gb/s for an aggregate bandwidth  of 800Gb/s. The chip is designed into a compact 7.5mm x 7mm package,  enabling it to be used in industry-standard QSFP- and OSFP-style form factors.  The device is suitable for reaches up to 2km in applications including  hyperscale data centers and artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning  (ML) clusters. The PIC includes  on-chip lasers, incorporating DustPhotonics’ patented L3C (low-loss laser  coupling) technology, whereby off-the-shelf lasers from different manufacturers  can be integrated with the PIC. This is said to allow advantages in product  performance, cost, power and supply chain scalability. DustPhotonics is  demonstrating this device in multiple configurations including a traditional 800GBASE-DR8  application, an immersion cooling application, and a reduced-reach  application. The immersion cooling demo showcases how this chip is suited  to being immersed in a liquid coolant, since there is no free-space interface  between the laser and PIC or at the fiber attach interface at the optical  output of the chip. For the reduced-reach application, DustPhotonics is  demonstrating a second, cost-optimized version of the product suitable for  transceivers or active optical cables (AOCs) up to 100m, or for  linear-drive pluggable optic (LPO) applications. “We are seeing a  lot of customer traction for this 800G application,” says CEO Ronnen Lovinger.  “We are well-positioned for the next phase of the company, which is to scale  into high-volume manufacturing,” he reckons. 
  “We have been  encouraged by the growth of the 800Gb/s market, and we believe DustPhotonics  single-chip PIC solution will help fuel adoption while easing some of the early  supply chain constraints we are seeing in the industry,” comments Vladimir  Kozlov, founder & CEO of optical communications market research firm LightCounting. The device is  sampling to customers now and is expected to be in production by first-quarter 2024 