Lumentum addresses surge in AI and ML data traffic with high-performance optical solutions at ECOC Lumentum Holdings Inc of San Jose, CA, USA (which designs and makes  optical and photonic products for optical networks and lasers for industrial  and consumer markets) is  showcasing its latest solutions, conducting live demonstrations, and sharing  industry perspectives at the European Conference on Optical Communication  (ECOC 2023) in Glasgow, Scotland, UK (2–4 October).  The firm’s booth is located at the Scottish Event Campus, in Hall Four,  Stand #426. Product  highlights include availability of a 130+GBaud smart transmitter receiver  optical sub-assembly (TROSA), and live demonstrations of the new 800G ZR+  and 0dBm 400G ZR+ compact transceivers. These products address the growing  need from cloud data-center operators for high-performance optical solutions  that support the rapid influx of data traffic and increasing bandwidth  requirements driven by new artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning  (ML) applications. In addition,  on 4 October (13:20–13:35) senior principal engineer Brian Smith is  delivering a Market Focus presentation ‘The 6th Generation of Fiber Optic  Communications: Carrier and Spatial Division Multiplexing (CSDM)’, providing  his insights on the next era of optical networking, which Lumentum introduced  at its LITE 2023 Investor Event in March. The discussion complements a recently  published whitepaper on this topic, now available on the Lumentum website. New optical  solutions on display at the show include: Lumentum is  also conduct and participating in live demonstrations with its latest optical  solutions, including: Lumentum is also  participating in OIF’s Common Management Interface Specification (CMIS)  demonstration with its Open ZR+ and 400ZR QSFP-DD transceiver. CMIS has  become the common, yet flexible, management interface that provides both host  and module vendors an interoperable path for integration and feature  development. Both demonstrations are being held in the OIF booth at Stand #304. “As the  technology landscape evolves at a breakneck pace and the relentless need for  data-intensive applications persists, we’ve designed our products to support  the increased level of efficiency and performance that’s essential in this new era,”  emphasizes Wupen Yuen, president, Cloud and Networking, at Lumentum. 