TRUMPF and KDPOF showcasing first 980nm multi-gigabit interconnect system for automotive systems At the European Conference for  Optical Communication  (ECOC 2023) in Glasgow,  Scotland, UK (1–5 October), TRUMPF Photonic Components GmbH  of Ulm, Germany (part of the TRUMPF Group) – which makes  vertical-cavity surface-emitting lasers (VCSELs) and photodiodes for the  consumer electronics, datacoms, industrial sensing & heat treatment  and automotive markets – and fabless semiconductor firm KDPOF of Tres Cantos, Madrid, Spain – a supplier of automotive  gigabit connectivity over POF (plastic optical fiber)  – are showcasing the first 980nm multi-gigabit interconnect system for  automotive systems. “After a long-term cooperation,  it’s great to have entered the stage where we can prove to end-users the true  strength of 980nm optical interconnects,” says Ralph Gudde, VP marketing &  sales at TRUMPF Photonic Components. Both companies aim to implement  state-of-the art optical data communication  standards and solutions for the automotive industry. Due to the push in the  automotive sector towards autonomous driving, a large amount of data must be  processed in cars. Consequently, optical interconnects are required to manage  the data flow as a nervous  system, connecting sensors and electronic brains, while tight electro-magnetic  interference (EMI) requirements are met. As this trend is increasing, TRUMPF  and KDPOF entered a strategic partnership as early as 2022 to combine their  knowledge of components and networks for data communication. Now, significant  progress is being made with the first implementation of the new standard IEEE  Std 802.3cz (nGBASE-AU),  consisting of a transceiver that integrates electronics, photonics and optics  in a single IC component. Evaluation kits will soon become ready for OEMs to  test. “Automotive is a very demanding  industry. The IEEE Std 802.3cz  standard is therefore focusing on highly reliable conditions that enable  lifetimes of 15 years and  more, with low cost and  high-volume implementations”, notes Rubén Pérez-Aranda, KDPOF’s chief  technology officer.  “Having suppliers like TRUMPF in the 802.3cz working group enriched the discussion with their deep  manufacturing and design knowledge of VCSEL and photodiode components, which in  turn enabled the production of a serious and dependable standard,” he adds.  “With our strategic partnership we are going one step further and are targeting  optical networks to become an indispensable part of future cars.” Automotive applications require not  only a much wider range of operating temperatures, reaching from minus 40°C up  to +125°C but also a low interconnect length  of less than 40m. For superior robustness against wear and random failures, the  980nm-wavelength VCSEL was approved as the new standard. Besides its  performance characteristics, 980nm suits the existing OM3 fibers with low  dispersion loss. At ECOC, TRUMPF  Photonic Components is exhibiting in booth 641 and KDPOF is exhibiting in  booth 937. 