QSFP-DD MSA releases hardware specification revision 7.0 At the European Conference on Optical Communications (ECOC 2023)  in Glasgow, Scotland, UK, the Quad Small Form Factor Pluggable Double Density  (QSFP-DD) Multi-Source Agreement (MSA) group announced the release of a  hardware specification revision 7.0. This updates the existing QSFP-DD MSA  specification and introduces the QSFP-DD1600 module variant to drive further  improvements in performance, scalability and power handling. The new specification maintains the form factor’s eight  electrical lanes, with each lane operating at the new higher 200Gbps rate to  provide an aggregate module bandwidth capacity of 1.6Tbps. The 1.6Tbps host port  maintains backwards compatibility with the entire family of QSFP and QSFP-DD  modules and cables. This provides the high degree of flexibility that end users  and system designers have come to expect from QSFP and QSFP-DD, easing their  network port speed migrations. The new release includes enhancements to further improve the power handling  capability of QSFP and QSFP-DD form factor’s small faceplate profile and  the QSFP-DD’s riding heatsink feature. The combination of these features  enables system designers to more efficiently cool the majority of modules as  well as support even higher-power modules that may be required in  next-generation high-density Ethernet switch platforms, supporting all module  variants such as coherent 1600ZR modules. The new QSFP-DD1600 specification maintains the existing port density  enjoyed by systems utilizing QSFP-DD currently, and fully utilizes the  faceplate to efficiently use the rack-space that is expected from  next-generation capacity switches. “Network operators are continuing to push the QSFP-DD form factor  to meet the expectations of next-generation systems while maintaining backward  compatibility,” says MSA co-chair Scott Sommers. “This is a critical step for  the operational strategy of next-generation deployments,” he adds. “The design flexibility that the QSFP-DD form factor enables  with its riding heatsink and small faceplate profile maximizes the available  air flow and provides engineers the flexibility to meet the challenges for  the next generation of system design,” says MSA co-chair Mark Nowell. “QSFP-DD  continues to be the cornerstone of high-performance, high-density pluggable  optics for the foreseeable future.” This new specification extends the QSFP-DD leadership to 1.6Tbps,  with broad support from component manufacturers to end users, and  continues the market leadership for QSFP-DD from its original 400G and now 800G  adoption, says the group. A new whitepaper focusing on the thermal enhancements, including  the resulting reduction of system power of QSFP-DD1600, is available on the  QSFP-DD MSA website. The QSFP-DD MSA is supported by more than 60 companies addressing  the technical challenges of achieving a double-density interface and ensuring  mechanical, electrical, thermal and signal integrity interoperability for  the next generation of networking equipment. 