HELUKABEL’s New Single-Handed Cable Cutter You only need one hand to safely use HELUKABEL's ergonomic cable insulation cutter in the field. For more than 40 years, HELUKABEL has been producing high-quality cables for industry. Currently, their product portfolio encompasses a variety of cables designed to suit a broad range of commercial/industrial applications. HELUKABEL also offers its complimentary HELUTOOL line of accessories and tools. To enhance its tool offering the company recently introduced the HAM 29, an innovative one-handed cable jacket cutter.    Because electricians and technicians are constantly using hand tools to do their jobs, they need to be highly ergonomic in design and function. Jacket cutters are no exception. Jacket cutters are essential for hardwiring power and control networks. The end of every cable has to be stripped of its insulation. Given that, a typical industrial-grade project might require repeating this operation hundreds if not thousands of times, it’s easier to understand why ergonomics plays such a critical role in tool design.    HELUKABEL’s jacket-cutting tool offers innovative features that one may not find with similar tools on the market. For example, the design incorporates a simple locking mechanism to enhance user safety. The tool is locked in the closed position until the depth knob is turned to the unlocked position. The lock also shields the user and prevents the cutting blade from damage. The HAM 29 is capable of trimming cables from 4.5 to 29 mm in diameter, and the blade can be rotated and adjusted with one hand. A spring is used to maintain pressure on the cable and prevent blade slippage. Cutting-blade depth, finely adjustable up to 3 mm, assures a clean cut and less potential for damaging the cables within. Once the circumference of the jacket is cut, the blade can be rotated and run longitudinally slicing it open for easy removal.    According to HELUKABEL, well-designed and ergonomic hand tools have been shown to reduce fatigue and potential injury. The HAM 29 has been built with ergonomics in mind. From form to function, HELUKABEL’s jacket cutter offers users a handy, efficient tool purpose-built for the task. 