PATLITE Debuts New USB-Controlled Signal Beacon Signal beacons are an important part of most automated manufacturing processes. Recently PATLITE developed a new line of sensors with several mounting options and USB programming capabilities. Signal Beacons are commonly found in most modern industrial settings and manufacturing environments to signal operating/moving machinery, impending catastrophe, proximity, and more. When flashing, signal beacons are hard to miss and even harder to ignore. Plant engineers and machine designers generally deploy beacons to signal and alert personnel of anything that changes or might instigate failure or catastrophic failure. Some signal beacons simply turn on or off, while others can be integrated into a series of programmable lights in different colors capable of displaying more complex information via color-coded light patterns.    Regardless of the application, signal beacons need to be robust, engineered to operate in harsh industrial settings. For example, light-emitting diode (LED) technology has virtually eliminated incandescent lightbulbs in this application. Solid-state, LEDs are inherently shock and vibration resistant and capable of withstanding the rigors of industrial applications. LED-based beacons are also energy efficient and provide specifiers access to a broad range of color options. However, regardless of color or indication, signal beacons are essential to industrial safety.  The PATLITE NE-USB PATLITE, a manufacturer of audio-visual warning and alerting technologies, recently introduced a new line of signal beacons. Dubbed the NE-USB, the controlled multicolor signal beacon offers as many as seven different color options to meet engineers' and system designers' specific signaling needs. As the name suggests, NE-USB signal beacons are USB powered and controlled. The beacon’s USB connectivity means the devices can be easily integrated into new and existing operations. There are two different models available, the NE-S□-USB and the NE-W□-USB. The NE-S□-USB offers tripod, magnet, and pedestal mounting options. The direct-mount option is IP65 rated for extra protection. A touch-sensor model is also available from PATLITE eliminating the need for an external input switch. Because the beacons are connected via a USB cable and are directly powered and controlled by a PC, they provide operators and technicians with broader access, simplified programming, and enhanced signal and color control. Programming PATLITE beacons can be executed through the DLL software library. Designed to be user-friendly, in addition to easy programming, installed protocols allow non-Windows PCs to be used to program the beacons. However, according to the manufacturer, some programming knowledge is required to control the light from a PC via the USB-powered port.   PATLITE beacons can be programmed to emit different colors, from red to purple. For those specifying the magnetic mounting option, PATLITE uses a neodymium magnet perfect for mounting to steel cabinets and similar ferrous-metal surfaces. The optional mounting screw fixed to the bottom of the beacon allows for most standard mounting options like tripods and poles. 