KUKA Expands its AMR Portfolio With KMR iisy and KMP 1500P KUKA recently announced the addition of two new autonomous mobile robot (AMR) systems designed to help improve logistics and material handling operations with industry 4.0-capable solutions. KUKA recently announced the addition of the KMR iisy mobile cobot and KMP 1500P to its line of industrial robots. KUKA’s robots offer an expanded set of capabilities for manufacturers integrating mobile robotic technology into their current plant processes and material-handling logistics. KUKA also engineered its AMRs for easy integration without the need for infrastructure changes or extensive modification to existing systems and equipment.  Intended to represent the next level of intralogistics for manufacturers, the KMR iisy and KMP 1500P have been designed to support migrating processes and operations to industry 4.0 standards. KUKA designed the systems as solutions for two major issues manufacturers face transitioning or upgrading operations. First on the list is the need for more efficient material handling without requiring a major infrastructure investment. The second major issue is system flexibility. KUKA’s AMRs are engineered to deliver a high degree of flexibility that allows manufacturers more freedom when it comes to making changes to material-handling processes.  KUKA’s KMR iisy combines an automated mobile platform and a KUKA cobot. The combination gives customers access to a unique configuration to manage material handling and supply. The platform offers the best from both: The easy integration of a Cobot with the flexibility and autonomy of an AMR. Because of their integrability and flexibility, KUKA’s AMRs are a good fit for both legacy and new warehouse logistics and production operations.    The mobile cobot platform’s functionality and mobility are enabled by a navigation sensor system consisting of safety scanners and 3D cameras. The array of scanners and cameras control safe and accurate navigation in most common manufacturing environments. The system uses light detection and ranging (LiDAR) to detect any obstacles or humans in the AMR’s path and also tracks and records their movements to help prevent collisions or injuries to operators and other workers on the factory floor. The 3D cameras KUKA uses are also capable of detecting potential obstacles as high as 2 meters off the ground. According to KUKA, due to its low dust emission levels, the KMR iisy is clean-room capable and certified electrostatic discharge (ESD) safe. That essentially means the robot is safe to use transporting and palletizing semiconductors or other sensitive electronics.  The KMP 1500P is a mobile platform designed expressly to help manufacturers and warehouse operators improve the efficiency of intralogistics operations. Built for heavy industrial applications, the KMP 1500P is capable of transporting up to 1.5 tons of material on demand.    For accuracy and safety, the KMP 1500P integrates alignment technology and offers a 60-mm stroke for picking up materials and goods from different floor heights. Similar to its cousin the KMR iisy, the KMP 1500P is engineered for moving materials and supplies as well as workpiece transport in support of production. KUKA’s KMP 1500P is also capable of supporting industry 4.0 integrations. Both the KUKA KMR iisy and the KMP 1500P AMRs offer manufacturers a unique and cost-effective way of improving plant efficiency. The new robots also provide manufacturers the opportunity to introduce industry 4.0 capabilities into material handling operations more successfully with fewer issues or compromises. 