Control Automation Welcomes Steve Kuehn as New Editor-in-Chief Industrial automation industry leader, Steven Kuehn, joins Control Automation as the new Editor-in-Chief. EETech is pleased to announce that Steven Kuehn has joined our staff as the Editor-in-Chief for Control.com. He brings his decades of experience as a creator of content, engineering insights, and economic analysis for automated industries around the globe. Our motto at EETech is “helping engineers engineer the future.” We are excited to continue fulfilling this motto by adding valuable editorial team members as we strive for success, both today and for the future of control automation. Kuehn joins our experienced and growing Control Automation team, bringing a strong legacy of success in both the publishing and control engineering worlds. His previous publishing roles include Editor-in-Chief at Pharmaceutical Manufacturing and Managing Editor of Control and Control Design. Kuehn’s automation industry experience includes managerial roles in media relations and strategic communications for leading companies like Siemens and Rockwell Automation. “It is rare to find someone like Steve with significant experience working on both sides of the aisle—trade publishing and corporate communications,” said Dale Wilson, EETech’'s Director of Engineering and Content. “As Control.com continues to grow rapidly and expand its leadership in the industrial automation industry, Steve’s energy and professionalism will help us tackle new initiatives and improve our coverage of this amazing industry.”    Steve joins the engineering and editorial team at a time of exceptional growth and success for the brand, adding momentum as we increase offerings for education, technical insight, and up-to-date news content for the benefit of engineers, technicians, and executives. “Recent history is proving that the world needs more control and automation engineers, not less,” notes Kuehn. “To meet the future on a global scale will require tremendous collaboration, as well as a free exchange of ideas, data and dreams. Control.com offers engineers access to innovation and a dynamic space to learn, grow and share. I’m honored and thrilled to have the opportunity to play a leading role delivering that experience.”  Steve, along with Control.com’s editorial and video teams, will be in Las Vegas in September to cover Pack Expo. Do you have an innovation to share or a new product to launch at the show? Reach out, and let us know! 