Balluff Launches an IP67 Field Power Supply With IO-Link Balluff introduces a field-mounted power supply with an IP67 rating allowing devices to be powered directly in the field with added IO-Link functionality to monitor system performance and prevent downtime. Supplying power to devices with cables is the only part of electronics that may never be escaped. Even if communication systems become completely wireless, power must always be present, somehow.    A common method for powering field devices is to have a power supply located in a central control cabinet and use cables to supply the auxiliary power to the branch circuits and devices out in the field. Another method for IO-Link devices is to use remote power sourced by an IO-Link master, but this method has limited current ratings. Perhaps the best overall option is a compromise, placing individual power supplies out in the field, closer to the devices that require those higher-current ratings. However, this would require a cabinet rated for the environment as well as extra connectors, cables, and terminal blocks. Balluff has recently released a solution: an IP67-rated power supply that can be mounted directly in the field.    Supplying sufficient power to field devices is an important step in the design phase of equipment, and Balluff is making this process easier. The BAE012 is available in four variations and can support three-phase or single-phase power input sources. The single-phase supply voltage ranges from 85 to 264 VAC and is wired through a standard M12 or ⅞” 3-pin connector. The three-phase models support a voltage range of 323 to 552 VAC and they also use the standard M12 or ⅞” 4-pin connector. The power supplies can output up to 25 amps for the single-phase model and up to 15 amps for the three-phase model, with bursts of up to 40 amps for 5 seconds. Each power supply has two outputs with two channels, each with internal electronic fusing. If one channel trips its fuse, the other three channels will still continue to operate. Status monitoring and remote parameters are accessible over an IO-Link network, which allows the control system to provide backup power and analyze the root cause of failures more quickly. With these power supplies, design engineers can incorporate 2x 16 amp IO-Link masters in a daisy chain configuration or 4x 9 amp IO-Link masters, also in a daisy chain configuration. Because these power supplies are manufactured by Balluff, they are compatible with most other Balluff I/O devices, such as RFID sensors, light curtains, cameras, and I/O modules. The BAE012 also supports inductive loads such as DC motors or valve terminals. The power supply can be mounted on a standard DIN rail or via a flange. All the variations are IP67 rated, which provides a high level of protection from dust and water, ensuring that the devices are washdown-safe and capable of immersion to depths of 150mm.    It is common to find field I/O devices such as IO-Link masters in the field or even on equipment outside of electrical cabinets. Gone are the days when we had to run cables from each sensor back to a control cabinet. Now, we use I/O blocks and send sensor signals over industrial protocols. The BAE012 power supply reduces the need to run additional power cables from the control cabinet to high-current devices or allows designers to daisy chain devices all onto one supply cable. Consider a servo track conveyor with ten stations, with each station having a configurable IO-Link master with three to four sensors and outputs. If you wanted to fuse each IO-Link master separately, you would need a separate power cable for each master. With the BAE012, the supply cable can power up to four masters, all with their own fused connection. This saves cabinet space and wiring, and reduces the number of components in the electrical system, always a benefit for space and cost-saving for field equipment. 