The Annual Control Engineering Survey - 2023 Edition The quality of content from our educational site comes from understanding our audience and your needs. Help give us the best snapshot of today’s control industry, along with a free chance to win one of several Amazon card prizes! Control Automation is excited to announce this year’s annual engineering survey, your opportunity to represent your peers as we seek information about the technologies, theories, and challenges facing the industry right here, right now. During the past year, finishing out 2022 and welcoming 2023, our site has seen incredible growth, and the industry in general has been influenced by the introduction of many new brands and the explosive advancements of concepts like AI and vision, among many others. As a publishing media company devoted to bringing you the best educational resources and news the internet has to offer, our team at Control.com relies on understanding these challenges and seeing through the eyes of our community members.   This survey is intended for engineers, technicians, managers, executives, and many more throughout any field or company related to controls or automation - you are our audience. As we seek to meet the needs of diverse audiences, we need to hear the voices of that audience. Regardless of your job title, years of experience, decision-making influence, or industry area, we need to hear from you. The survey is only expected to take about 20 minutes to complete, as we understand that you have limited time available, but the information is critical to ensure that we can provide meaningful, relevant topics as we launch new editorial content, videos, events, and partnerships with valuable companies.  Primarily, the information we gain will be used to craft content that will help you and your peers solve challenges and advance your learning faster than ever before. For those interested in a giveaway at the conclusion of the survey, you may enter the drawing for a $100 Amazon gift card, or one of many $25 Amazon gift cards.  We also provide the option of receiving the final information executive summary at the conclusion of the survey period. This will allow you to compare your own standing with those throughout your industry, helping you to pinpoint areas of growth to stay at the competitive edge. 