Kawasaki Brings RS025N Medium Payload Robot to North America Kawasaki has introduced the North American market to the newest medium payload robot, boasting the largest reach and highest speed of its class. The Kawasaki RS025N medium payload robot combines a small footprint with the largest reach of any robot in its class. The RS025N has officially been launched to the North American markets and it’s the latest installment of their widely-used R line of six-axis robots, which has been tried and tested since 2017.    Capable of lifting up to 25 kg of payload, and increased range of motion, the RS025N sports a redesigned arm as compared to previous models. The upper arm section uses an improved cantilever system, making it possible to lift and stabilize these heavier loads much farther away from the robot body, reaching as far away as 1885 mm, or as close as 331.1 mm. This is 160 mm farther away and almost 50 mm closer than the previous model, the RS020N. Not only that, but its motion is repeatable to within 0.04 mm, making it a perfect fit for picking operations which require precision movements. In spite of this longer reach, the robot itself has a smaller footprint than previous designs, with reduced interference zones. It is capable of being mounted on floors, ceilings, tables, carts, and walls, depending on the specific application. Ready to run, it weighs in at 270 kg. Another aspect of this design is that the main base motor has been moved into the base instead of in the arm. This further protects the motor. With waterproof cable connections and IP67-rated component and motor housings, they are designed for work in dusty industrial environments. Besides the physical characteristics, the robot comes equipped with Ethernet capabilities, making it easy to integrate with a variety of industrial controllers and sensors.  The 25 kg payload and large reach make it the ideal robot for picking, packing and palletizing operations of medium-weight products. Common consumer goods could be pulled from the manufacturing assembly line to package and sent to retail warehouses with the RS025N. A few of them working in tandem could speed up the operation significantly.    They could also see use in manufacturing operations as machine tenders. With the proper grips, they could remove metal parts from heat treating ovens, move or rotate parts for machining operations, feed raw materials into processing equipment, and many other tasks. Kawasaki is already established in many industries, including automotive, metals, plastics, aerospace, electronics, and food and beverage manufacturing. In all of these industries, there are machining, picking, packaging, and palletizing operations which can be transformed through the use of well-placed and programmed robots.  The newest in the R-line, the RS025N will be useful to virtually any picking, manufacturing, packaging, or palletizing operation, provided the loads are under 25 kg. With its extended reach, both far away and up close, versatile mounting options, six axes of control, and small footprint, this robot is designed for saving space in the rugged, industrial environment. 