Temposonics Develops New Rod Sensor for Extreme Environments Sensors give IIoT the vital information it needs to better enhance plant connectivity, Tempsonics’ new R-SERIES V RM5 sensor expands sensing capabilities to even the most harsh environments. Sensors play an ever-increasing role in the productivity and viability of almost all manufacturing processes. They are the “eyes” of the automation world, serving to relay information to control systems which then decode and process the information for accurate decision-making. With many manufacturers moving toward a more hands-on approach for the Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) and Industry 4.0, sensing capabilities have become even more important. Before IIoT, sensors only relayed data to isolated control units where it was used directly as a part of one isolated automation ‘island’. The IIoT has changed this system of isolation. Now, sensors and data are linked via the internet to create large networks of information, with each sensor as the starting point for much of this data. The data can then be used for a myriad of purposes: helping to improve plant efficiency, reducing downtime, and enabling predictive maintenance. This means that sensors are now finding themselves in different locations than they may have in the past.  Harsh environments have always been a difficult place to install sensors, they must be protected from the very nature of the environment they are built to inhabit. Sensors generally don’t last very long in wet environments, overly dry environments, hot environments, corrosive places, or other ‘extreme’ locations.    Tempsonics has taken this into account with the development of their new R-SERIES V RM5 sensor, designed for use in harsh environments. The sensor gives manufacturers the ability to get IIoT usable information from extreme environments, something that has generally been a difficult thing to accomplish.  The new R-SERIES V RM5, is a rod sensor designed for use specifically in extreme environments. The sensor comes as an answer to manufacturers looking for precise and reliable sensing capabilities in aggressive locations. It is available as an option for the R-Series V Rod; where the R-Series V Rod Sensor is housed in a high-grade steel housing, capable of protecting it from very harsh environments. The sensor includes precise non-contact technology that features precision measurement, even in stressful conditions like corrosive environments. The sensor can even be used in applications where it is submerged. The ability to operate submerged expands its range of possibilities to include use in tanks and other areas where the sensor may need to be submerged for extended periods of time. In addition to extremely wet environments, the sensor can also be effectively used in the most dusty dry environments without issue as well. Tempsonics hopes to provide end users with a rugged design that will reduce downtime since the casing is made out of durable stainless steel 1.4404 (AISI 316L). The housing is IP68 and IP69 rated with analog or SSI outputs available, with more outputs available at a later date.    The sensor is compatible with Tempsonics smart assistants TempoLink® and TempoGate®, meaning that the sensor can provide detailed information about the sensor's own properties to enhance preventive maintenance capabilities. Some of the information includes:  The new R-SERIES V RM5 sensor created by Tempsonics has the ability to give manufacturers sensing capabilities in harsh environments. This allows manufacturers to better connect their equipment and plant processes to IIoT, helping them in their journey to Industry 4.0-powered manufacturing. The sensing unit features a stainless steel housing over the R-Series V rod sensor, making it usable in everything from submerged to dry dusty environments for accurate and rapid position sensing. 