Exploring the Air | UAVs Provide Quality Data for Outdoor Environments Recently, drones have been providing new data for a variety of specialty projects related to public safety, environmental monitoring, and interaction with nature in many innovative areas. Drones, or unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), have evolved from their origins as a military toy into a useful tool for collecting data. In recent years, there has been a drastic expansion in the number of drones, and it has prompted new legislation and regulations regarding their use. Even with the increased bureaucracy, engineers, scientists, government officials, and hobbyists have been developing new ways to use and enjoy drones.  The next time you go to the beach, among the seagulls, you may see a few man-made objects in flight. Recently, New York authorized the use of additional drones to monitor for the presence of sharks in the water. This comes after a string of shark attacks that occurred on New York state beaches over the extended July 4 holiday weekend (which itself saw a record-breaking drone light display). Dozens of new drones will patrol the waters off the coast of New York, tracking sharks and hopefully preventing future drone attacks.    Fire-resistant drones are being developed to assist in firefighting operations. When completed, these drones can help detect sources of additional fuel, source regions of fires, and potentially missing persons during wildfires. The use of a drone can save firefighters’ time, as well as their lives.    Instead of searching a large wildfire for missing campers, the drone can quickly scan large areas, and then direct firefighters where to go. This is much more efficient than sending firefighters in on the ground. Furthermore, these specialized drones can be used to locate ignition sources or additional fuel. For example, in a large warehouse fire, a fire-resistant drone can be used to locate potential gas leaks or other dangerous areas, well before firefighters’ lives are put at risk. Paris has notoriously strict drone laws. Afraid of disrupting the beauty of its skies, adding to the noise pollution, and ruining photographs of the Eiffel Tower, Paris has all but banned drone flights around the city.    However, this is partially changing. As the summer of 2023 becomes one of the hottest on record in many places around the globe, and many Parisians do not have access to air conditioning, people are searching for places in the shade to cool off. Météo France, France’s national weather service, has begun flying drones around the city to search for cooler spots. So far, the drones have detected nearly 800 places with slightly lower temperatures. An online map shows these locations so that folks can seek out a little relief from the heat.  Thanks to researchers at New Mexico Tech, new life has been breathed into a meme-worthy conspiracy theory, claiming that birds are actually just government spy drones. The Mechanical Engineering department has recently used taxidermied birds to camouflage drones. The disguises are complete with flapping wings in hopes of blending in with regular birds.    While this creepy-sounding project seems sinister, it is actually targeted toward migratory bird research. Drones that can blend in with migratory birds may be able to teach scientists more about how birds select their resting places, how climate is affecting migration, and all sorts of other information.  Drone usage will continue to grow. While some will complain (rightly, in many cases) about the potential invasion of privacy and how drones can disturb the peace and disrupt nature, these flying platforms will also be able to advance research and monitor for potential hazards in new ways. Humans, animals, and drones are going to have to learn how to coexist. 