SMC Releases Suite of New Products for Pneumatic System Optimization A new set of connector, valve, and cylinder products released by SMC promises to reduce downtime, save space, and provide more cost-effective maintenance operations. SMC is a global leader in the manufacture of pneumatic components. Their product line consists of nearly every pneumatic component you can think of, from connectors and flow controls, to valve banks and cylinders. Recently, SMC has released three new products to supplement the existing catalog of connectors, valve manifolds, and pneumatic cylinders.  A pneumatic cylinder is a simple device that uses compressed air to perform work, the dual rod cylinder uses cylinders to perform the same function as a single rod cylinder. Thanks to the dual rod design, there is zero rotation of the moving components.    The CXS2 reports as having four times the durability as existing dural rod cylinders. This increased durability means less maintenance and less downtime for equipment. The CXS2 comes in three main stroke ranges: 1 to 100 mm, 1 to 150 mm, and 1 to 200 mm, with bore sizes ranging from 6 to 32 mm. All the models have a rubber cushion bumper, a proof pressure of 1.05 MPa, and an ambient temperature range of -10 to 60 °C.  Controlling the speed of a pneumatic cylinder is typically required in all applications. By controlling the speed, we can prevent the cylinder from slamming into its bumper and causing premature wear.    A check valve prevents airflow in one direction, while a pilot check valve has an additional port to disable the check valve and allow airflow in both directions. Typically, these devices can be installed in a pneumatic system as individual components, but SMC has combined them into a single, compact solution that screws directly into a cylinder’s ports. The ASP comes in two variations vertical and horizontal. Each variation has multiple thread types and port sizes of 4 to 12 mm in diameter. All versions have a proof pressure of 1.05 MPa and a pilot operating pressure of 50% of the supply pressure. With this style of speed controller, it is possible to construct a safety switch to prevent accidental operation. The cylinder is plumbed as normal with an ASP on the extend and retract ports, and the pilots are plumbed to a safety switch. When safety conditions are met, the safety valve pressurizes the check valves and allows motion.  Today’s automation equipment is becoming more advanced and designers are commonly trying to save time and money by having grippers with dual function, such as a mechanical gripper with a vacuum gripper.    SMC has introduced a valve manifold that can have standard pneumatic valves along with vacuum generators and ejectors. This reduces the need for standalone valves or generators, both can be combined into one valve manifold and controlled on the same ethernet node. The JSY1000-E is a modular system that allows designers to select the number of actuator valves and the number of vacuum generators required for their application. The valves and generators can then be installed on the backplane of the JSY1000, much like installing terminal blocks on the DIN rail. The JSY1000-E communicates to control systems through discrete wiring or over EtherCAT industrial protocol, both the communication port and power port use an M8 connection.  Pneumatic systems are very common in automated assembly and automated process control. With compressed air, you can perform work on parts in an automated fashion for a lot less than servo-controlled actuation. This set of new components from SMC is designed to save space, reduce maintenance costs, and reduce equipment downtime, all of which add up to company savings in the long run. 