ABB Releases New NEMA Motor with Durability and Modularity at its Core Uncover the modular AMI 5800 NEMA motor from ABB, which provides engineers with improved performance and durability for industrial applications. The Swiss multinational corporation, ABB, announced the release of the latest iteration of NEMA motor as part of its new NEMA motor line introduced in late May this year. The AMI 5800 NEMA induction motor has been designed with modularity, durability, efficiency, and sustainability for the North American market.    NEMA, the National Electrical Manufacturers Association, is a US-based trade organization that brings together companies that make electrical products and technologies for medical imaging. NEMA develops and releases standards for a wide range of electrical goods and systems used in industrial, residential, and commercial settings. The electrical industry is covered by a large number of NEMA standards, which include: motors and motor systems, lighting, wiring devices, and electrical enclosures. Back in May, ABB announced that it had finalized its acquisition of the low-voltage NEMA motor business run by technology powerhouse, Siemens. The acquisition was a part of ABB’s strategy to grow its Motion business and position the company as a leader in the manufacture of industrial NEMA motors. These motors are used across a variety of industries, including oil and gas, food and beverage, water and wastewater, mining and aggregate, and others utilizing heating, ventilation, and air conditioning systems.  The AMI 5800 provides engineers with a shorter bearing-to-bearing length than previous iterations, improving high-speed performance and allowing the motor to serve as a drop-in solution when replacing equipment that needs an upgrade. The ‘modular’ design of the motor means that optional parts can be added and removed, so each unique application can be easily customized without having to order an expensive, specialty motor.    The true NEMA design of the AMI 5800 means that it is electrically and mechanically compliant concerning performance and mounting capabilities. The modular AMI 5800 has a maximum power output of 1750 HP, 2 to 8 poles, and the option of anti-friction and sleeve bearings to suit different application requirements. This welded steel construction, which is generally only seen in more substantial frame motors, reduces frame stress while reducing resonance and vibrations, extending the service life of the motor. Additionally, its design complies with the API and NEMA-specified vibration thresholds. With strengthened end shields, the robust structure can withstand harsh conditions and prolonged use. With little need for maintenance, unwanted downtime can be avoided. The new NEMA motor is set to ensure efficient airflow, so it will operate at an optimum temperature regardless of whether it is installed outside or entirely inside of a cooler. Additionally, the AMI 5800's compact XBA dimension (BA + V, or the distance from the front mounting foot to the end of the output shaft) makes it possible for it to be positioned in small spaces, which makes it ideal for replacing outdated equipment. Strong foot attachment guarantees that the motor's only input to the driven equipment is torque, resulting in minimal vibration and noise across the whole speed range. The motor is suited for beginning high inertia loads directly on line (DOL) thanks to the MICADUR insulation system, and it also makes an ideal companion for variable speed drives. The AMI 5800 provides 20,000 starts per lifetime or a design lifetime of 25 years.  The AMI 5800 NEMA motor offers engineers several advantages and creates new opportunities across a range of industrial sectors. The AMI 5800 provides engineers with a versatile alternative for upgrading and replacing equipment owing to its compact dimensions, modular construction, and compliance with NEMA standards. Its robust steel design reduces vibrations, lowers noise, and increases service life, which minimizes maintenance and downtime. The AMI 5800 can power vital machinery like pumps, compressors, and conveyors in the oil and gas sector and others, improving system performance and productivity. 