Banner’s New Current Sensor Converter For Digital Current Signals The use of signal converters, like Banner Engineering’s new current sensors with Snap Signal, can help manufacturers further connect their factories and monitor current to prevent future breakdowns. Banner Engineering has released the new S15C current transformer to give manufacturers an option for receiving digital output signals to represent circuit current measurements. It is part of their ‘Snap Signal’ converter lineup, intended to help plant connectivity by bridging protocol and connector differences.  With the rise of the Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT), manufacturers are able to see benefits from interconnected equipment and plants. Cloud connectivity means that plants can monitor equipment for early equipment failure detection and abnormalities, reducing downtime, and allowing for more efficient problem troubleshooting. Without connectivity provided through digital communication, each individual cell within a plant becomes an isolated island that has to be monitored as a single entity.    Sensors that measure the current running through a circuit into a machine can be beneficial for a huge variety of applications: Traditional current sensors supply an analog output, with a certain number of volts or mA per each circuit ampere. However, current sensors that provide digital signals through industrial protocols, such as this new S15C current transformer, can help link cells across an entire plant floor (or across the world) for IIoT-connected manufacturers.  Banner has recently developed and released a new current reading transformer capable of outputting digital signals for protocols like IO-link, PICK-IQ, PWM/PFM, and Modbus, called the S15C Current Transformer. The sensor is a current reading transformer (often called simply current transformers, or CTs) that comes pre-configured for 600 Amp, 150 Amp, and 20 Amp installations. The sensor consists of a dedicated analog current transformer connected to one of Banner’s Snap Signal S15C converters. Since each converter has a preconfigured current transformer, there is no need for configuration at the time of installation. This helps manufacturers and integrators save on labor costs through reduced installation times associated with the addition of the converters to new and preexisting cells. Each converter comes with an M12 cord attached to a transformer that connects to a S15 converter.  The S15C converters used for Banner’s current transformers are not the only signal converters in Banner’s converter toolkit. They have an entire lineup of digital converters called Snap Signal converters. Snap Signal converters can greatly help with the connectivity of modern manufacturing plants, helping to transform them into smart factories with increased IIoT capabilities. Customers can even use them to integrate legacy devices into standard protocols for connectivity of older plant equipment.    Snap Signal converters can be used to bridge a variety of barriers: All of these issues can lead to plant process isolation, making it difficult for IIoT implementation. The Snap Signal allows manufacturers to break free from connector and protocol limitations. The converters are capable of bridging the gap between most common connectors and protocols to allow signals to be converted and transmitted seamlessly. Many Snap Signal converters are designed specifically for Banner devices, but there are also those that can be used for universal connectors and are specifically tailored to be brand agnostic.  Banner has taken strides to help manufacturers increase their IIoT connectivity and move toward total data integration. Their new S15C Current Transformers feature preconfigured Amp ratings and come with a Snap Signal converter to output whatever type of signal is needed. Current sensors are useful for many different applications, and this new combination of a current sensor along with Snap Signal gives manufacturers a unique way to connect their plant processes. In addition, Banner has an entire lineup of different Snap Signal Converters that can be used to bridge protocols and integrate legacy equipment into their smart factory setup. 