Schneider Announces Enhancement to Square D VisiPacT Safety Switches Schneider Electric improves the Square D VisiPacT product line with safety and convenience features designed to set the paradigm of heavy-duty switches, meeting or exceeding the demands of OSHA and NEMA. All industrial and commercial equipment requires a disconnect to remove the electrical supply from the system. This device breaks the connection from the equipment to the supply voltage. For example, on the outside of an HVAC air handling system will be a fused disconnect. If the system needs to be serviced, technicians can operate this switch to remove power to the unit. In the event of an emergency, electrical power can be immediately removed from the system with the use of the disconnect.  Schneider Electric, a leading manufacturer of many electrical and digital components, has supported the Square D product line since its introduction in 1907. Recently, Schneider has improved the VisiPacT product line of Square D by adding some key features.  A main disconnect typically consists of a metal box that is rated for specific environments, and many models will have fuses on each phase inside the box. As the switch position is moved from off to on, the current is allowed to flow through the fuses into the equipment or device. Inspecting the main disconnect during maintenance intervals requires verifying the switch condition and verifying the correct fuse size.    On most disconnects, this inspection requires shutting down the equipment and opening the box, exposing the technician to arch flash and possible electrical shock. With the VisiPacT disconnect, there is an inspection window installed on the front of the box that allows technicians to inspect the switch condition, position, and fuse ratings. This is bound to save time and money by not having to shut down equipment.  In the event of an emergency, first responders need to shut down the equipment immediately, so at a glance they need to know if the disconnect is on or off. The handle of the VisiPacT is colored bright red when the switch is on and black when the switch is off.    There is also a hole that travels perpendicular to the handle for first responders to actuate the switch with a hooked pole. This feature provides superior insulation from arch flash because the switch can be actuated on or off from a distance with the use of an insulated pole, far out of the range of arc flash danger.  There is no greater frustration than looking for part numbers, manuals, or ratings for devices when you need them. For this reason, Schneider has placed a QR code on the front of the VisiPacT disconnect that will direct the user to all the manuals, drawings, and part numbers for the particular model they are scanning. This saves countless hours searching online for information and it ensures the technician has the correct information for the disconnect they are working on.    The VisiPacT Square D disconnect is designed for higher voltage applications, with current ranging from 30 to 200 amp services that might be seen with HVAC equipment or large AC motors, or even air compressors. These disconnects can be found mounted directly to equipment or mounted to a wall next to the equipment. The safety and convenience features added to the VisiPacT disconnect will make lives easier and safer for maintenance staff, technicians, and emergency personnel who depend on reliable equipment, designed with the user in mind. 