SCHUNK’s New CMS Adapter System Boosts Flexibility in End Effectors SCHUNK seeks to provide more rapid and flexible robot-machine tool and gripper changeovers with a new user-friendly, safety-optimized CMS manual change system for industrial applications. SCHUNK has introduced its new, user-friendly CMS manual change system for supporting flexible and adaptable tasks at assembly workstations, in technology assembly, and manufacturing. The CMS is suitable for both robots and other stationary applications. SCHUNK is a globally recognized supplier of products constructed from high-tech materials for production and robot systems. The company specializes in workpiece clamping, automation, tool clamping, depaneling, and gripping technology. SCHUNK also provides its customers with maintenance, repair, spare parts, and accessories services.    The CMS manual change system has a locking lever for manually locking the interchangeable head with the change adapter (no additional tools required). The actual locking bolt is made from corrosion-resistant steel to provide a secure and durable locking system. The various connections are not hidden by the thrust lever's new, cranked design. As a result, all system connections are accessible radially and axially for vacuum and pneumatics. The presence of a spring-loaded latching pin provides a strong attachment for the hand-lever to the housing of the CMS manual change system, which provides an added level of operational safety. An integrated monitoring sensor framework adds to operating safety by enabling inductive monitoring of interlock state and mold presence.  A standardized pattern of mounting holes on machinery or equipment is referred to as an ISO mounting pattern or ISO flange pattern. It is widely used in numerous sectors, including robotics and automation, and is specified by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO).    The ISO mounting pattern comprises a grid of circular or square-shaped bolt holes that are evenly spaced apart. These holes provide interoperability and compatibility between various parts or devices that comply with the same ISO standard. The CMS manual change system exhibits this pattern for the robot and tool adapter side, which means that it can be fitted directly onto common robot arm types without the need for another adapter plate, as shown by the reference to the ISO flange pattern. Direct attachment of electrical, pneumatic, and fluid modules is made possible by a standardized screw-on surface, permitting flexible transfer of energy for powering a wide variety of tools.  SCHUNK offers its customers a diverse catalog of pneumatic and manual change systems to help facilitate the more rapid and efficient changeover of robotic effectors such as grippers and other tools.    The CMS system has a 58 kg payload capacity and can combine with machining and handling components from the SCHUNK portfolio. Machine operators can economize on the flexibility of the CMS system and change between grippers or machine tools from the R-EMENDO series, for example. Customers can access six sizes of SCHUNK’s CMS manual change system and can choose to use the less expensive CMS-B model, sporting the same mechanical design but without pneumatic feed-throughs. The CMS manual change system is available from SCHUNK as a one-to-one substitute for the outgoing model for current clients. It adds new functions in addition to the predecessor model's existing qualities. 