Newly Released: Exclusive Control.com Robotics Textbook The engineering team at Control.com has written a brand-new textbook section explaining the fundamentals of robotics, explaining the most recent innovations in industrial, collaborative, and mobile robots. Control.com is proud to announce the publication of a new textbook volume called “Fundamentals of Industrial Robots.” This new book is designed to present the topics of modern robotics in a clear, fully illustrated manner that can provide learning for beginners as well as insight into the most recent innovations for long-time robotics users.  The new textbook is divided into distinct content sections for industrial and collaborative robots, explaining terms, definitions, uses, and kinematics for each kind of model. As automation engineers already know, industrial robots have a much longer legacy, and the technology is fairly well understood, from typical 6-axis arms to SCARA and other systems. Cobots, on the other hand, only appeared on the scene a few short years ago. The two types bear many similarities, but also many critical differences from their industrial relatives.    The book also covers mobile robotics, explaining the unique challenges faced by these designs as they enhance the world of automated logistics and material handling. When the robot is free-roaming, the topics of battery life, object detection, and payload hauling change drastically from fixed articulated robots. Important sections that were published also include attention to robot end-of-arm tooling (EoAT), kinematics that help to define the tool centerpoint (TCP) motion, and the ever-important subject of robot safety.  The pictures that clearly illustrate the various concepts and tools are carefully selected by our team from those taken at recent trade shows, industry installations, and classroom settings. Although learning about robots through hands-on training is critical for a true understanding, this book will give a great visual baseline of knowledge on which to build for future learning. With a well-rounded portfolio of represented brands, you can see many of the design similarities that are shared across manufacturers, and perhaps even a few key trademarks that make some robots stand out in the crowd (did I mention bright colors?).  The book was written with the intent of providing factual information and details to an engineering audience, perfect for those in the field or in the classroom. If you are attending an engineering school (anywhere from high school to university), this book can give you a clear picture of robotics in the real world. Instructors, are you looking for free access texts to provide to students that give them an honest look at what to expect from robotic jobs and careers following graduation? This book is perfect for classes or as supplemental information to build on your own outstanding classes.    Our Control.com community is built on sharing knowledge from other engineers. You can trust the textbook and the author team to be diligent in providing the best possible content to help you learn to be a better engineer every day! While you are here, if you haven’t already, please sign up and join our community. You can ask and answer questions in the forum and you’ll receive the best curated news and articles (and maybe even textbooks and videos!) that are sure to be both interesting and informative. They say you get what you pay for, so around here, the learning is sure to be invaluable! 