Automating Wire Labels With the New IDENTCO VortexID IDENTCO announced the release of the new VortexID, promising reliable label application on wires, cables, and wiring harnesses, solving several challenges regarding speed and flexibility of marking. Electrical wiring in any industry requires labels to reference each wire to a proper connection in a wiring diagram. Sometimes specific wire color is used, but not all applications can rely on a color code system to identify the function of a wire. Wire or cable labels will usually consist of a series of numbers and sometimes letters that reference back to specific line numbers on the pages within an electrical schematic that will describe the connection points for the wire or cable. Typically, wire labels are manually printed and applied, but this can be very time-consuming. Some systems will print and apply the label, but they are often only capable of running for one shift before maintenance or printing ribbons need to be replaced.    IDENTCO is a manufacturer of industrial label applicators, intended to solve label challenges in the electronics, equipment, and general industrial sectors. Their product line consists of standard label printers visible on an assembly floor all the way up to fully automated label printing and application machines that could be integrated into automated equipment. They also carry labels for wire or cable identification, branding labels, warning and caution labels, and instructional labels, just to name a few. Recently, IDENTCO announced the release of the new VortexID, a system designed to print and apply labels for wires, cables, or wire harnesses. The VortexID is capable of printing 20 labels per minute at a resolution of 300 dpi, and the system is designed to run for 24 hours, 7 days a week. The VortexID uses a vacuum plate to transfer the printed label from the print head to the wire, cable, or harness. There is even a rotating mechanism for reliable application to cylindrical part types. The VortexID is capable of handling both self-adhesive labels as well as flag-style labels. This reduces the requirement for different models of label systems if both style labels are required.    While current product details do not mention any specific industrial protocols used, similar products offered by IDENTCO do have both serial and Ethernet communication along with USB capabilities and an optional WLAN card. The VortexID has a built-in LCD screen along with a rotary switch and an emergency stop push button.  The wiring harness of any automobile, ATV, or tractor is considered the central nervous system of the equipment. As options are added or removed, the wiring harness changes, so labeling this harness is very important.    The harness is most likely manufactured long before the vehicle is assembled, as there is only a specific number of options to choose from, so there will be a specific number of wiring harness part types. As vehicles travel down the assembly line, the harness will be installed, and each vehicle might get a different harness, so it is very important that the correct harness is installed. The label on the harness will ensure that the technician installs it in the correct vehicle. The above example outlines why it is so important that the harness is labeled correctly; If the label were to fall off because of improper application, or if the incorrect label is applied, there could be unrecoverable costs associated. The VortexID promises fast and reliable label application on a variety of wire, cable, and harness applications. 