CMTS returns to Toronto in September 2023 with a future-focused technology showcase The Canadian Manufacturing Technology Show (CMTS) is scheduled to take place at the Toronto Congress Centre from Sept. 25 through 28, 2023. Over 500 suppliers and original-equipment manufacturers (OEMs), more than 8,000 manufacturing professionals from across the country and around the globe and 250,000+ square feet of manufacturing excellence housing a staggering 500,000+ pounds of live equipment will be featured over four action-packed days. More than 200 cutting-edge new products will be on display. Thought leaders will provide over 50 education sessions, where attendees will gain invaluable insights into the latest trends and advancements shaping the manufacturing landscape. Evening happy hours (Day 1: 3:00 – 5:00 p.m. and Days 2 & 3: 5:00 – 7:00 p.m.) will facilitate connections with industry peers, with extended hours allowing attendance at CMTS without disruption to attendees’ daytime schedules. The event schedule includes a comprehensive lineup of sessions and panels over the four-day event. On the first day, opening keynote speaker Massimiliano Moruzzi, CEO of Toronto, Ont.-based Xaba, a startup focused on intelligent automation enabling sustainable manufacturing, will explore AI integration, from industrial robotics to sustainable materials in manufacturing. A presentation by Diane Reko, CEO of Windsor, Ont.-based Reko International Group – a diversified, technology-driven manufacturing organization with robotic factory automation expertise – will focus on manufacturing’s pivotal role in Canada and the global landscape, charting its future. Day 2 will delve into AI and Industry 5.0, intertwined with sustainability, in a thought leadership panel moderated by Subo Chatterjee from PwC Canada. On the third day, morning keynote speaker Flavio Volpe, President, Automotive Parts Manufacturers’ Association (APMA), will share insights on how Canada can drive the next transportation revolution. This will be followed by a panel, “Making the C.A.S.E for Canada,” focusing on battery systems, AI, and more. The panel features Alex Qi, CEO of Pontosense, and Peter Watkins, COO, QA Consultants, and will be moderated by Colin Dhillon, CTO, APMA. Greta Cutulenco, CEO and co-founder of Kitchener-Ont.-based Acerta – a leader in automotive technology solutions – will deliver the keynote on Day 4 with a day dedicated to next-generation talent, including the celebration of women in manufacturing. The panel, “Wonderous Women in Manufacturing,” moderated by Julie Pike, senior director of event strategy at SME, will follow. Panellists include Dr. Mihaela Vlasea, associate professor at the University of Waterloo, and Lisa Block, chief revenue officer at Hybrid Manufacturing Technologies Global. Bob Willig, executive director and CEO of SME says, “In 2020, the manufacturing industry faced unprecedented challenges. Now, as we look ahead to 2023, CMTS is returning to Toronto with a focus on the technologies driving the future of Canadian manufacturing. This event unites all facets of Canada’s manufacturing industry, offering a platform for knowledge-sharing, collaboration, and innovation in the manufacturing sector.” In addition to the show floor exhibits, CMTS 2023 presents the following special features: 