Beckhoff Creates Power Supply Module for ‘Cabinetless’ Automation System Last year, Beckhoff created the MX-System for cabinetless automation control, and has recently updated the power supply modules to be compatible with drives, robotics, and conveyance devices. Beckhoff has expanded the MX-System, a modular platform announced in 2022 that can take the place of a control cabinet without the manual labor and complexity involved in designing and wiring discrete components. The MX-System consists of functional modules that fit onto a backplane to create a waterproof and dustproof solution for creating machine motion systems. Beckhoff’s new MX power supply offerings work in tandem with 48V components in several different motion systems, so Beckhoff has created four variants of the power supply to suit customers' individual needs. The power supply modules are designed to provide power for the following different Beckhoff motion devices:    Beckhoff hopes that the new modular plug-and-play MX-System will save customers both time and money on their future automation projects by greatly simplifying power supply and control systems for automation.  The new 48V power supplies for the MX-System are plugged directly into the baseplate without manual wiring, along with devices like contactors, controllers, motor drive units, relays, I/O modules, and more. In this way, the entire control cabinet becomes a single modular component, just like a PLC with a backplane and modules, if that PLC chassis could handle large currents and motor drives directly plugged into it. The supply can be powered with either the 3-phase main voltage or the 600 VDC that the drive system uses. All MX-System components can be linked through the EtherCAT-powered backplane communication lines with the use of the secondary MX-System interface. The baseplate can be supplied with 48V power using the data interface. The MX-System features 10A and 20A power supplies for motion components that feed directly into the backplane. There is also a 40A variant that can be used to supply components with 48VDC directly out of the front of the module with connectors. Measures have been put in place to protect the lines and cables that are integrated into each module, located on the output side. In addition, power loads can be distributed between several modules wired in parallel to balance peak power loads. In addition to power supplies for external devices, the modules can supply a direct connection to the EtherCAT network. Braking resistors for servos can be eliminated because the module is able to accept regenerative energy and feed it back into the supply. This can be used to facilitate the braking of servo motors on conveyor lines and more. All MX-System modules are supported by the Beckhoff Service app that gives customers access to hardware diagnostics.    The MX-System can offer manufacturers many benefits, depending on each unique circumstance. Each system can be individually designed around the modularity of the MX-System. Far fewer components are needed than in traditional control cabinets meaning the MX-System is smaller and lighter, reducing the amount of space occupied in a system. In addition, no manual wiring is necessary to make the MX-System operational, and all components simply plug into the baseplate. Without time-consuming wiring, the overall installation and build time labor can be greatly reduced. Fast cable installation using hybrid technology also prevents the possibility of installation errors. There is no need for an electrician for the mechanical building of the cabinet since there isn’t any wiring, helping to reduce labor costs since less skilled labor is needed in the assembly of the MX-System. Lastly, many maintenance problems can be fixed with the system’s diagnostic tools, and all the work can be completed more quickly and efficiently without tracing potentially faulty wiring. 