Eaton and FMX Join Forces to Create Smart Predictive Industrial Maintenance Software Eaton and FMX collaborate to create a predictive maintenance software specifically designed to work with electrical components and systems, providing greater savings on maintenance and reduced downtime. A collaboration between electrical giant Eaton and software company FMX has resulted in a new smart predictive industrial maintenance software to help manufacturers increase preventative maintenance capabilities, a common goal in modern manufacturing. Eaton brings an impressive, 100+ year resume of electrical and digital capabilities to the table to be used in conjunction with FMX’s computerized maintenance management system (CMMS). The duo hopes to help manufacturers increase productivity and reduce downtime as a result of taking advantage of the new capabilities offered by the product.    With the use of the smart maintenance solution, customers have the ability to react quickly to any upcoming maintenance issues, before they become larger problems that have the potential to create unnecessary downtime. The technology gives customers a unique look at electrical equipment, which normally has very limited visual cues before failure. Electrical system analysis often stands in contrast to mechanical equipment, which often shows visual or audible signs of fatigue before complete failure, so simple inspection procedures or standalone vibration, audio, and temperature sensors can alert maintenance staff to impending downtime in advance.  The solution helps manufacturers become more proactive in their approach to preventing electrical maintenance issues. This is done through a continuous analysis of data received from the equipment and cloud connectivity. Power system health is taken into consideration through the use of intelligent equipment monitoring and automated monitoring, scheduling, and management. The use of predictive maintenance technology has the potential to save manufacturers and end users up to 25% on maintenance costs. The system can be used to help simplify compliance with the 2023 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 70B standard for electrical equipment maintenance, for those who need to comply with this standard. Eaton is currently using the smart maintenance solution in their manufacturing facility in Beaver, Pennsylvania. The use of the technology has already proven to be insightful into the facility’s maintenance routine and has helped to save time and reduce costs. Since the system is cloud-based, it can be accessed by customers anywhere, giving them increased functionality without having to be in physical contact with the machinery being monitored. It also allows users to profit from lower upfront costs and reduce the complexity of software maintenance and upgrades. The interoperable part of the solution provided by Eaton can help customers monitor new and existing equipment in addition to pinpointing the most urgent maintenance needs of the equipment.    The FMX CMMS can be used to help with automatic scheduling for task assignments, while simultaneously tracking labor and product inventory. CMMS can even be used to digitize maintenance logs which are often necessary for code compliance and improved accuracy.  With skilled labor shortages and other common bottlenecks, it can be beneficial for manufacturers and automation users to find ways of increasing profits in creative ways. Often, improvements on current processes can be a way to improve efficiencies, reduce downtime and increase productivity and profits. The partnership between Eaton and FX is designed to create a smart predictive industrial maintenance software that can help improve maintenance on electrical equipment for manufacturers. Predictive maintenance translates to lowered amounts of downtime and less catastrophic part failure. The use of industry 4.0 technology and cloud capabilities also gives users the ability for automatic scheduling and access to the system from anywhere. 