Keyence Develops New Devices for Measurement, Scanning, and Vision Keyence recently released three new sensors and devices to assist engineers with better defect detection through accurate measurement, part scanning for CAD drawings, and AI-based vision sensing. A triad of new technology recently developed by Keyence uses new technology to help customers with measurement, real time CAD creation, and AI vision to more efficiently complete manufacturing QC part defect analysis for R&D operations.  The multisensor measurement system LM-X series is capable of providing customers with a single solution to many different measurement problems. The 3D Scanner CMM VL-700 series is capable of converting physical objects into CAD models in minutes, for different processes. Finally, the IV3 series features a vision sensor with built-in AI that gives flexibility for mistakes and error proofing in manufacturing. Keyence hopes the newly released products will help customers further enhance their manufacturing processes.  The LM-X series can be used to simplify complex measurement processes. A common issue with high accuracy measurement has to do with discrepancies between measurements as a result of operator differences. The LM-X series is accurate regardless of the operator using the device because it uses a combination of three different measurement methods: Operators do not need to take time to focus the part and it can take up to 5000 points on up to 1000 parts at any one time, leading to a large reduction in the amount of time necessary for an accurate part measurement.    The new 3D Scanner CMM VL-700 Series from Keyence is able to scan and analyze a part before finally producing a 3D CAD model of the part. An operator simply places the part on the device's measurement surface or ‘stage’ and with a single click the scanning process will be started. The one click solution means that even novice operators can get highly accurate results. No stickers or special alignment is necessary for the scanner to function properly.    Once the data has been found, it is sent through Keyence software to be turned into a useful CAD model for use in other areas. The scanned data can be placed with a 3D model to see where discrepancies lie with the use of color shading. In addition, Keyence has provided cross sectional measurement so customers can find dimensional differences between the actual part and the preliminary 3D model.  The IV3 series was developed to give users a sensor with built-in artificial intelligence capabilities. The sensor can be used to perform “Go” or “No Go” part detection for defects in the manufacturing process. The sensor features automatic image configuration and detection settings helping to save time. Anyone can quickly perform a stable detection with the device as a result of a single solution that includes the common components: the camera itself, an appropriate lens for typical detection distance, and light ring illumination.    The AI-based sensor is different from other sensors because it has both part detection and difference detection built in. Since the device includes an onboard processor, there is no need for any PC or IPC in the system. The sensors can be set up for use anywhere within its range of 50-2000 mm, and features a field of view of 1822×1364 mm. The impressive range means that it can be used for many applications and the wide field of view enables use even from very wide angles. 