Leuze Develops New TL 305 Tower Light Indicator Series Tower lights can offer vital information about automated cell status from a distance via visual cues. Leuze has announced the TL 305 series of tower lights to provide robust, customizable indicator options. Leuze, an industrial automation innovation and technology manufacturer, has recently announced the release of the new LED tower light for automation cells, called the TL 305 series. The lights are built using a robust aluminum housing to help facilitate use even in harsh industrial environments.  The tower of lights can be lit up in a homogenous manner, or alternatively, an optional IO-Link interface makes the lights within the tower programmable for more complex lighting schemes. Leuze has worked to make sure that the lights provide manufacturers with a reliable light source that lights up brightly. The uniform and full lighting creates optimal signaling for whatever the light is used for, be it convoy belts, automated machines, or access control systems.    The towers can be purchased in preconfigured stack sizes containing three, four, or five segments. The TL 305 model's tower lights consist of predefined color assignments for specific applications. If end users desire specific color options or customizable options, they can purchase the TL 305-IOL model. The TL 305-IOL models are available with an IO-Link interface for more functionality and color options. The IO-Link capable tower lights give users a broader range of possibilities and a wide range of color options, including an acoustic signaler, available upon request.  Since the TL 305 is preconfigured, users can get the features they want, right from the factory. If the installation requires more specific capabilities, the TL 305-IOL is available with different operating modes for more flexible use options. Color, light intensity, and light sequences can all be configured individually. There is even a fill level mode available to show operators a visual of cell consumables levels. If speedy commissioning is necessary, the tower lights can be set to one of eight predefined configurations using three external trigger inputs that do not require the use of the IO-Link connection.  Tower lights are useful in automated processes for a few different reasons. They are normally used to alert operators and maintenance personnel of alarms for the system, should there be such a fault. In addition, they can be used to give personnel in the area visual cues as to the running cycle status of the automated equipment. These statuses can be used to show that the robot is functioning normally, and that it is currently in the process of completing a cycle. After the completion of the cycle, the light tower can then change colors to indicate that the cycle is complete.    Another common use of tower lights is to give warning signals for low consumables in the cell. An example of this would be slip sheets in the palletizing process. Slip sheets often need to be replenished with human labor. Cell downtime can be saved if operators know the supply is low before the cell is completely out, something that often results in unnecessary downtime.  The use of tower lights can help to make a cell more easily “readable” from a distance without having to take the time to stand and watch the entire process or take time to consult an HMI. Saving time while maintaining safety is always the primary goal of any production environment. 