Industrial Cybersecurity Crackdown: Secureworks Releases Unified MDR Solution Secureworks aims to help industrial businesses maintain business integrity by shoring up cybersecurity surveillance with a first-of-its-kind, integrated MDR solution for IT and OT. An internationally renowned cybersecurity expert, Secureworks, announced the release of an advanced Managed Detection and Response solution for industrial organizations. Taegis ManagedXDR for operational technology (OT) provides Industrial players with access to an on-call team of cybersecurity professionals that can identify, investigate, and respond to potential threats on a 24/7 basis.    Cybersecurity attacks can prove detrimental to manufacturing organizations' operational and information technology (OT/IT) infrastructures. The gravity of these assaults may result in significant financial losses and operational interruptions. Manufacturing firms rely significantly on computerized systems and linked networks to regulate manufacturing processes, supply chains, and essential infrastructure. Unfortunately, growing connection exposes businesses to an array of cyber attacks that can exploit weaknesses in their OT and IT systems. Ransomware attacks are increasingly being employed, involving the encryption of a company’s data, locking up its systems (which can halt production), and ransoming the manufacturing companies for their release. According to the National Cybersecurity Center for Excellence, attacks on industrial control systems can influence or interrupt physical operations within manufacturing facilities, possibly resulting in safety risks or environmental harm. Furthermore, supply chain assaults have become a significant worry as attackers use supply chain flaws to obtain unauthorized access to production systems or implant malicious programs into the finished goods.  Secureworks Taegis XDR (eXtended detection and response) platform brings together OT intelligence and IT security telemetry, data points representing the remote collection and analysis of process information used to gain a system-wide view of health status and security. The centralized platform was designed for Managed Security Service Providers (MSSPs), helping them to manage security operations centers (SOCs) and provide MDR solutions. The software-as-a-service security platform includes over 700,000 hand-picked threat indicators and 20,000 countermeasures. Across a network of 2,000 customers, the platform processes a staggering 640 million security events each day. Taegis examines data from third-party sources, as well as Secureworks' proprietary data and international threat information compiled by Secureworks' Counter Threat Unit.  Taegis ManagedXDR comes with the Taegis iSensor Intrusion Detection System (IDS) and Intrusion Prevention System (IPS) device. It detects and protects network traffic traveling between devices within industrial IT and OT environments. It is capable of detecting and preventing unauthorized access, suspicious activity, and possible security breaches.    Taegis ManagedXDR integrates with a wide range of OT systems typically utilized in industrial environments. This implies that organizations may integrate Taegis XDR with their existing OT systems, such as production control systems or industrial devices, to improve operational security. It protects both the IT and operational environments against cyber attacks. Additionally, Taegis ManagedXDR provides ready-made connections to a variety of technological solutions. Popular platforms include Google, Amazon Web Services, Microsoft, and others. Taegis XDR can receive information from numerous sources, analyze possible risks, and present a holistic security strategy through its integration with these solutions.  Proactive security testing allows industrial businesses to assess and improve the resiliency of their IT and OT infrastructures to cyber attacks. Organizations may detect flaws in their systems, repair them before they are misused, and improve their overall cybersecurity posture by performing tests and simulations, creating a safer, more secure environment to collect and use data to improve manufacturing. 