ABB Robotics and Junglekeepers Combat Deforestation, One Cobot at a Time In one of the most remote corners of the world lives an ABB YuMi robot, quite worthy of an Indiana Jones theme tune intro, using cloud technology and working hard to help restore the Amazon rainforest. As part of a pioneering effort to help save the Amazon rainforest, ABB lent a helping robotic hand to Junglekeepers volunteers. The technology giant installed its YuMi cobot to help volunteers plant seeds that will one day replace vast stretches of Amazon rainforest in Peru.    Junglekeepers is a not-for-profit organization dedicated to protecting what are known to be the most species-diverse stretches of rainforest in the Amazon, namely, the Las Piedras wilderness within the Tambopata-Madre de Dios region of southeast Peru. According to Junglekeepers, the Las Piedras is home to 11 species of monkey, over 480 species of bird, and more than 19 ICUN Redlist endangered and threatened species. If the world wishes to save incredible animals like the Jaguar and the Giant Otter from losing their homes and lives, we must protect such a rich habitat. Protecting the Amazon is also crucial for sequestering carbon. According to the National Geographic Society, the Amazon rainforest takes in a substantial one-fourth of the carbon dioxide-a potent greenhouse gas⁠—absorbed by all land across the globe. Unfortunately, carbon capture has lowered by 30% since the 1990s because of deforestation for practices such as procuring wood and land for agriculture.  In a novel demonstration, ABB’s YuMi cobot helped automate planting seeds for volunteers, helping free up more time for other high-value conservation tasks. Automating those repetitive tasks, exactly as robots were designed to do, means rangers can use their time to get out in the field. In a remote lab located deep within the Peruvian rainforest, the solar-powered YuMi bot first digs a hole in the soil-filled container, picks and drops in a precious seed, compacts the soil by pressing down on the surface, and affixes a color-coded tag.    RobotStudio cloud technology from ABB transforms remote industrial robot operation by offering a cloud-based system for computing, simulation, surveillance, and collaboration. According to ABB, it provides improved versatility, efficiency, and accessibility by allowing users to manage robots remotely, optimize performance, and boost productivity. The cloud platform has been designed to support high-fidelity simulation, allowing users to develop digital representations of robot cells and test programs prior to deployment, enhancing efficiency and lowering risks. Users may remotely track robot performance, collect production-related information, and make data-based decisions for preventative maintenance and optimization using real-time tracking and data analytics features. RobotStudio's cloud-based architecture encourages cooperation and knowledge transfer among team members, allowing for synchronous work, insight sharing, and evaluation irrespective of physical location. Furthermore, the centralization of management in the cloud allows users to access upgrades and support. YuMi operates remotely via RobotStudio Cloud technology at a distance of 7,460 miles away from the tech professionals at ABB who create and deploy the programming required for the bot to carry out its tasks.  According to Junglekeepers, we have lost a staggering almost 20% of the Amazon rainforest, which is exactly why the addition of YuMi cobots to help expedite the seed planting process is so crucial, and provides an exciting illustration of the application of robotics to automate repetitive tasks. The cobot can aid volunteers in replanting an area similar in size to two soccer fields each day within rainforest-depleted zones. 