Banner Expands Light Curtain Lineup With New Easy-To-Install Devices Banner Engineering has added the new S4B light curtain lineup to improve light curtain functionality for customers with tricolor LED alignment and preventative maintenance capabilities to reduce downtime. Light Curtains are often a vital part of the safety equipment for many automations cells. They work as an invisible barrier, protecting both workers and the equipment within the cell.  Consisting of a transmitter and a receiver, light curtains make use of a series of sensors running their length, monitoring beams of light running between the transmitter and the receiver. Whenever the light passing between them is interrupted, the light curtains flip state and send a redundant E-stop signal that is then used to stop the operation of the cell. Since the curtains rely on the ability to send and receive light signals, the cleanliness of sensors and alignment are very important considerations.    Banner Engineering, a manufacturer of industrial devices including sensors, wireless solutions, machine safety, and more, has recently announced the addition of a new series of light curtains. Called the S4B series, the new light curtains are designed to offer end users easier installation in addition to a robust safety system. The light curtains are built to be heavy-duty for almost any type of manufacturing solution, and they have been designed with quick, easy installation at the forefront. Banner has worked to make the light curtains tough and dependable for a large range of applications.  The sensors have a resolution spanning only 30mm, meaning they are a good fit for applications that include the need for hand detection. The sensors range in size from 300mm to 1800mm in length and can therefore protect areas anywhere within that size range. The light curtains have a range of 12 meters and can be used for applications 12 meters or less, giving them a large range of installation possibilities.  An adjustable bracket has been included in the construction of the light curtains, making installation simple. In order to install the sensors, the brackets are mounted, and then the light sensor can be “clicked” into place between the brackets. Once the sensors are firmly mounted in the brackets, bracket specific fasteners are used to lock the light curtains in location.  Alignment of light curtains is pivotal to their proper operation. With this in mind, Banner has designed the S4B light curtains to include tricolor alignment LEDs to help users save time in the alignment process. If the curtains show red LEDs, then the curtains are not closely aligned. If the LEDs show yellow, then they are aligned, but not well. Once the LED indicators show a green light, then the light curtains are properly aligned and can operate as intended.    To help reduce downtime, the light curtains contain troubleshooting and preventative maintenance indicators. This helps operators prevent minor problems from becoming much larger issues. A weak beam indicator is used to tell operators that the signal between the light curtains is weak, either as a result of misalignments from the curtain shifting position or as a result of being hit or bumped. The weak signal indicator can also signify that the curtains are dirty, thereby inhibiting the amount of light between them, indicating that a cleaning is necessary. An output will also be energized on pin five to send that critical data to a PLC or an HMI.  The pigtail connecting the light curtains contains five pins and is modular, meaning it can be easily replaced should it or the light curtain become damaged. This makes for a more economical and time-saving solution. In order to swap the pigtail, the scan code set can be saved, all without the use of a PC. 