Siemens Expands The Popular SINUMERIK ONE Product Line for CNC Control Siemens releases a new version of the SINUMERIK CNC product line and upgrades their digital twin simulation software, allowing users to increase productivity and reduce waste better than ever before. Siemens is well known in the automation industry for their PLCs, motion control, and manufacturing tool product lines. Siemens offers VFDs and servo drives as well as motors that are used extensively in machine building and process control. CNC, or computer numeric controlled machines use servo motors to move cutting tools through material with high speed and accuracy. The servos are driven by a particular programming language called G-Code.    SINUMERIK is Siemens’ CNC product line that offers complete motion control packages from the user/programming panels all the way to the PLCs that drive the servo motors. SINUMERIK ONE allows end users to create digital twins of their CNC machining centers and recently Siemens added to the SINUMERIK ONE product to support a new version of the SINUMERIK product family.  Creating digital twins of machines is becoming more of a standard operating procedure when building new equipment. Having a digital twin allows for designers to configure additional hardware without spending upfront capital, and it helps maintenance staff troubleshoot issues and prevent them from happening again.    SINUMERIK ONE provides a digital twin of the SINUMERIK product line, from the controllers to the servo motors, as well as the software that drives them. By having a digital twin of your CNC machine, production schedules can be more accurately set, tool wear can be anticipated easier, and complex geometry can be calculated offline before the machining even begins. These features help reduce scrap and increase productivity, goals that any machine shop will strive to accomplish.  As hardware technology advances, the software that represents that hardware in the digital sphere also needs to be updated. Siemens has invested more time and engineering to ensure their digital twin software is representing the most up-to-date technology possible. The recent update represents SINUMERIK version 6.20, encompassing both hardware and software changes that will simplify CNC operation with new keyboards, 15 to 24 inch displays, and high-definition resolutions of up to 1920x1080 pixels. As for software innovations, the new version of SINUMERIK ONE will have a 3D option that supports robot integration into the digital world.    CNC machines take a digital component and make it a reality, this process requires advanced motion control that requires a large upfront financial investment. In order for a company to achieve a reasonable return on that investment, the machine needs to constantly be operating at the highest efficiency. By using a digital twin of the equipment, the software can schedule multiple machines so that they never sit idle. Tool paths can be optimized so that wasted movements are reduced. Troubleshooting equipment that is constantly running can be quite difficult, even if you know the root cause. Trying different solutions can be costly and could cause further damage to the equipment. By using a digital twin, multiple solutions can be applied and extended run times can be simulated to help speed up the troubleshooting process. With Siemens constantly upgrading their simulation software, they ensure a product that will be future-proof for the life of the product line. 