Dobot Introduces New CRA Cobot Series with Vision and Safety Additions Dobot’s new CRA series cobots offer end users enhanced gripping capabilities through the use of the new CRV500 smart camera and other enhanced features designed to decrease cycle time. Dobot looks to help end users with cobot applications by creating the new CRA series of cobots that feature a wide range of payload capabilities and the new CRV500 smart camera.  Dobot, the creator of the world's first desktop-grade Cobot (the compact MG400), recently announced a new lineup of collaborative robots at this year’s Automate trade show. The new Cobots feature a host of different attractive characteristics for many different applications. The CRA series cobot makes for the sixth series joining Dobot’s other robotic series: the CR, MG400, M1 Pro, Nova, and Magician.    The CRA comes ready to compete in the modern world of smart manufacturing, with an emphasis applied to the concept of a harmonic ‘symbiotic’ relationship between robot and worker in the factory setting. The CRA series of cobots consists of 7 different cobots ranging in payload capabilities from 3 kgs to 20 kgs (approx 6.6 to 44 lbs) to fit a wide range of applications. In addition to the new CRA series, Dobot announced its new CRV500 Smart Camera, which is designed to enhance gripping capabilities for the Cobots.  The CRA series of cobots was built with smart manufacturing in mind. Each cobot uses high-performance drive reducers that allow the robot to achieve 25% cycle time improvement. The drives also aim to improve efficiency for a reduction in total energy use. Dobot also included a brand new control box and operating software that they hope will greatly enhance the human-robot interaction necessary in any cobot installation. CRA cobots are available with SafeSkin, an exterior developed by Dobot that gives the robots the ability to operate at higher speeds without increasing the potential damage caused by collision. SafeSkin includes pre-collision sensing technology for safer operation and a soft exterior to reduce the force created on impact.    To further enhance the safety features, Dobot equipped the cobots with electromagnetic safety brakes that can engage in the event of a power outage within 18ms, stopping the cobot before it mores 1mm. Virtual boundaries can be set up to keep the cobot from reaching into areas that manufacturers may want to keep the Cobot from accessing. The arm comes with 10 I/O safety ports to be used for external device safety. Dobot has worked to make the new series reliable and efficient by including a new and improved anti-vibration algorithm. In addition, the use of a TrueMotion algorithm allows repeatable accuracy of 0.2 ~ 0.4 mm, even during complex movements. The cobots are easily integrated into plant processes with the inclusion of 24 I/O ports and 2 industrial ethernet ports for the use of Modbus, Ethernet/IP, and Profinet communication.  Dobot has created the CRV500 to help enhance capabilities for both the CRA series and CR series cobots. The CRV500 is a smart camera that allows the cobots enhanced object detection capabilities, inclination, and better horizontal angle accuracy. It comes with a 5-megapixel camera and LED light source, which works in conjunction with Dobot’s self-developed 2.5D spatial compensation technology. The 2.5D special compensation technology is useful in aiding different loading and unloading tasks, grabbing slanted surfaces, and transportation of AMR robots. Deployment of the camera is made easier since it works with visualization software. 