ABB Supports US Robotics Through Education and Technological Advancement ABB Robotics is making strides to promote the adoption of automation solutions and incubate the future automation workforce through its latest educational and technology offerings. Most employers are deeply familiar with the lack of skilled labor, both currently and in the future of the automated workplace, with the growing need for robotics solutions. One technology giant, ABB Robotics, continues to step up the plate with its latest educational and industrial offerings.    ABB predicts that robots will see wider adoption across global industries in response to continued labor shortages. As we have learned in a previous article from Control Automation, Deloitte similarly predicted as many as 2.4 million jobs might go unfilled from 2018 to 2028 because of a lack of skilled workers in the industrial automation space. Using automated robotics solutions can help bridge the skills gap and relieve workers of monotonous, repetitive, and heavy-duty tasks, to allow higher-value tasks to be executed. Such technologies are expected to augment human skills, aid worker development and training, and enhance business growth. According to a survey conducted by ABB Robotics in 2022, a substantial number of U.S. companies are seeking to re- or near-shore their operations amidst supply chain instability, necessitating the implementation of easy-to-install automated robotic solutions to speed installation and commissioning times.    According to ABB, Artificial intelligence (AI) and autonomous technology advancements will make robots more accessible and user-friendly, creating potential in new sectors. Visual Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) technology from ABB expands the functionality of AMRs by providing intelligent navigation based on AI-enabled 3D vision. This advancement, together with continuous AI advancements, enables robots to execute a broader range of jobs, such as non-uniform object selection. Furthermore, the simplicity of robot programming software and controllers lowers adoption hurdles, making it easier for businesses to integrate robots into their operations. Because of the rising usage of robots in numerous industries, specialized collaborations between industry and educators are required to help the workforce transition to an automated environment. Companies will need personnel with automation expertise, necessitating training partnerships between schools, colleges, universities, and supporting organizations. ABB has already developed over 150 agreements with schools in the U.S. to provide programming and robotics skills education.  ABB Robotics has launched a complete education package to help rectify the skills gap and prepare students to embark on their journey toward becoming a part of the workforce of the future. The offering includes educational materials, a GoFa collaborative robot, and a globally recognized technical qualification. Students aged 15 years old and above can use the cobot alongside ABB's Wizard Easy Programming with no prior programming knowledge While automation is expected to alter employment over the next decade, just a quarter of educational institutions now include robotics in their curriculum. ABB Robotics' Education Package offers a way of making it more robotics education more accessible for colleges, universities, and other educational institutions.    At the Huntington Place Convention Centre in Detroit, Michigan, ABB Robotics demonstrated its next-generation robotic technology at the Automate 2023 show. The company's objective is to give flexibility and simplicity to businesses of all technological competence levels. Spotlight technologies and demos included the CRB 15000 GoFa collaborative robot, the CRB 1300 SWIFTI cobot, newly branded AMRs, a PixelPaint system for two-tone painting, and a printed circuit board assembly cell featuring the Dual-arm YuMi cobot. ABB also revealed two significant innovations: two greater payload GoFa collaborative robot types and a new line of big robots with 22 distinct variants. The corporation underscored its dedication to serving the US market and meeting automation requirements. In the face of labor restrictions and rising customer appetite for personalized and environmentally conscious goods, the firm stressed its commitment to supporting the U.S. market and solving automation demands. The acknowledgment of the rising usage of robots in global sectors to solve worker shortages and a lack of qualified personnel in industrial automation drives ABB's ambition to upskill the workforce of the future. ABB's dedication to the upskilling effort is apparent in initiatives such as the education package, partnerships with educational institutions, and the exhibition of sophisticated robotic technologies at events such as Automate 2023. 