Mitsubishi Invests in Clearpath Robotics to Realize Smart Factories of the Future Mitsubishi Electric has announced its investment in Clearpath Robotics, owner of OTTO Motors, to bolster AMR adoption for full factory automation and realize smart factories of the future. International electronics equipment and solutions provider Mitsubishi Electric Corporation divulged that it has directed important investment into supporting autonomous mobile robot (AMR) developer and manufacturer Clearpath Robotics. With companies like Clearpath Robotics, Mitsubishi endeavors to optimize and advance autonomous factory operations and digital transformation through the use of AMRs and integrated solutions.    According to Inkwood Research, the global AMR market is projected to reach $14.47 billion by 2030, growing at a compound annual growth rate of 21.31 percent between 2022 and 2030. Key players behind the AMR market include Aethon, Inc., Clearpath Robotics, General Atomics Aeronautical Systems, Inc., and SMP Robotics Systems Corp. Inkwood Research reports that the increasing use of Internet of Things devices and wireless and cloud technologies is promoting the adoption of autonomous machinery and systems in warehouses, distribution centers, and manufacturing facilities. These technologies are set to engineer the future of autonomous mobile robots. Across the U.S., the growing capacity of warehouses and consumer demand for receiving e-commerce products more quickly is spurring investment in network-connected technologies. AMRs rely on digital data and a high-speed, low-latency network, which obviates the need for improved connectivity and interoperability in warehouses and distribution centers. According to Triton Market Research, North America’s AMR market is projected to grow at a CAGR of 23.90 percent between 2021 and 2028.  Today, AMRs have integrated sensors and vision systems that allow them to map and navigate their environment autonomously, aiding goods/product conveyance without human supervision. This can save time for workers in warehouses or logistics centers because they do not need to walk around to pick up or deposit products. AMRs can also be used in machine inspection, checking the health status, and operational efficiency of automated systems in industrial environments through smart scanning technology backed by artificial intelligence. Sensor data can be transmitted back to a central control panel for processing and analysis, generating insights into optimizing workflows and improving efficiency.    AMRs can also connect to information technology systems such as manufacturing execution systems and enterprise resource planning systems, key elements contributing to streamlined autonomous facility operations. Manufacturing facility workers can be freed from undertaking heavy-going, repetitive tasks to perform more high-value or critical tasks using AMR systems. Not only does this save on labor costs, but it keeps workers safe.  Along with other industry partners, Mitsubishi and Clearpath Robotics aim to advance AMR adoption globally, priming manufacturing facilities, distribution and logistic centers, and warehouses with digitally optimized autonomous capabilities for smart factory of the future operations. 