Local Ontario manufacturers invest in facility automation with provincial aid Cobourg manufacturers Beneco Packaging and Custom Plastics International Limited are investing a total of $8.4 million with support from Ontario government. These investments will increase the production of made-in-Ontario products and create 30 new, good-paying jobs in Cobourg. Beneco Packaging, a wholesale packaging firm, is investing $7 million to purchase new automated equipment that will expand its product line and increase and speed up production. The new equipment will help the company meet growing domestic and international demand for a wide range of packaging products. Beneco Packaging will receive $500,000 in funding through the Regional Development Program’s Eastern Ontario Development Fund. “The Eastern Ontario Development Fund is significantly boosting our growth, enabling operational expansion and rapid response to customer demands,” said Carol Jiang, president of Beneco Packaging. “This support is facilitating the integration of cutting-edge technology, enhancing efficiency, while advanced training programs empower our workforce and amplify regional economic vitality.” Custom Plastics International Limited, a family-owned, injection molding company, is investing over $1.4 million to add new production lines and automation to its Cobourg facility. The new lines and automated equipment will increase productivity and efficiencies and help the company expand to new markets. Custom Plastics will receive $217,050 in funding through the Regional Development Program’s Eastern Ontario Development Fund. “Custom Plastics is excited to announce that we are receiving support from the Regional Development Program to embrace automation and enhance efficiency on the factory floor,” said Jim Majury, vice-president and general manager at Custom Plastics. “This investment will enable us to design flexible automation cells that can be used throughout the plant, promoting efficiency and adaptability. Our investment in collaborative robots is yielding improved throughput and efficiencies while promoting safety and improving job satisfaction for our employees.” 