Fluke Releases Stand-alone Thermal Imager For Extreme Environments Fluke has introduced the space-saving, stand-alone ThermoView TV30 Thermal Imager for temperature control and monitoring in harsh industrial settings, doing away with connecting to vulnerable PCs. Profiling and temperature measurement solutions provider Fluke Process Instruments announced the release of a space-saving, rugged, stand-alone thermal imager for monitoring and controlling the temperature of industrial process applications in harsh environments. The ThermoView TV30 Imager allows industrial technicians and engineers to construct thermal imaging systems without the limitations of connecting to vulnerable PCs.    The ThermoView TV30 has an operating temperature of -10 to 50 °C (14 to 122 °F) and an IP67 rating. The IP67 rating is considered the highest level of protection, guarding against dust, water, and other liquids when immersed in up to 1 m. The imager also features a broad measuring range of -10 to 1300 °C (14 to 2372 °F) and measurement accuracy of down to ±2 °C or ±2 ° percent. Other features of the ThermoView TV30 include a detector with an uncooled focal plane array, a spectral range of 8 -14 μm, and a frame rate of 9 or 60 frames per second. Fluke customers can also expect a light-emitting diode display with system error codes and an indication of power provision. The imager is powered by 24 V of direct current (± 20 percent) or power over Ethernet and comes with a remotely controlled motorized focus. Customers can choose between three lens options with narrow or wide visual fields.  With the ThermoView software, engineers can mitigate downtime and reduce unnecessary machine or system maintenance through defect identification, alarm notifications, and consistent asset monitoring. Users can customize areas for monitoring or areas of interest (AOI) within industrial process applications through pass/fail logic. This decision-making logic involves the assessment of a scenario and the subsequent determination of whether it adheres to a specific set of criteria. Pass/fail logic is used in computer programming to speed up the decision-making process and improve efficiency. For engineers, incorporating pass/fail logic in the ThermoView software allows for temperature monitoring and product inspection.   The ThermoView TV30 supports several protocols, including MQTT and OPC UA, for PLC integration. OPC UA allows data to flow securely between machines and devices, promoting interoperability. With MQTT, data can be transmitted in real-time in resource-limited environments. Devices can generate and share data with a designated broker, and other subscribed devices can obtain the information. MQTT is suitable for use in decentralized industrial settings because of its low bandwidth and efficiency requirements. Along with OPC UA and MQTT communication protocols, other fieldbus protocols are available for connecting to existing external devices and controllers, helping to reduce installation costs.  The ThermoView is suitable for use across an array of industries, including automotive, aerospace, utilities, construction materials, solar and semiconductor, metals processing, and more. As an example, the ThermoView TV30 could be applied to testing heating elements within car seats. The ThermoView software can be used to pick out cold or hot zones. Users can employ several AOIs to monitor heating element temperatures and set up alarms to indicate when temperatures are exceeded. 