Automate 2023 Is Almost Here, With 750+ Exhibitors Powering Possibilities Automate 2023, North America’s largest automation trade show, is rapidly approaching! Control.com will be in attendance, ready to learn about the latest products and solutions and to interview industry experts. Detroit, MI, will host North America’s premiere automation conference, Automate 2023, on May 22-25. With over 750 automation companies in attendance, Automate is the place to learn about new products, trends, and methodologies in automation. The event will be hosted at the Huntington Place Convention Center, providing space for the 25,000+ attendees. Registration is free and open, meaning there is still time to take advantage of this opportunity to see what’s new and network with industry experts.   Automate 2023 will have over 750 vendors present during the trade show. Everything from niche sensor manufacturers to those who make complete, turn-key production lines will be among these vendors. Manufacturers of robotics, robotic components, sensors, and hardware, as well as software designers for control systems, human-machine interfaces (HMI), artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning (ML), and network security leaders, will all be in attendance. It is a fantastic opportunity to get questions answered, form new collaborations, and network with others. It is impossible to feature every company in attendance, but a sneak preview of exhibitors reads like a “Who’s Who” list of automation and robotics leaders.    ROEQ will demonstrate a few of its autonomous mobile robots (AMRs) and AMR tools, such as its top module and cart system. It will have several products on display that can increase (and, in some cases, double) the carrying capacity of certain common robots. At its booth, ABB will feature AMRs, cobots performing plastic additive manufacturing, vehicle painting robots that reduce cycle time by up to 50%, and many other robotics demonstrations. The Red Dot Design award winner, Stäubli Robotics, will feature its newest Automated Guided Vehicle (AGV), the PF3. The PF3 is a compact robot that can move and handle loads of up to 3 tons.  The Control.com team will also be in attendance, learning about the new trends and equipment in automation. The team has already started strategically planning routes through the conference center to see as much as possible in the few short days of the event. Control.com's list of must-see booths includes ASRock Industrial, Cognex, HIWIN, and many others specializing in sensors and controls. The team also plans to see some of the biggest names in automation, such as ABB, FANUC, Mitsubishi, SICK, and others. Besides visiting the booths, Control.com will conduct interviews and meet some industry experts that make these automation systems possible. Through the interviews, Control will learn about some of the growing trends in automation, with topics ranging from green manufacturing to supply chain issues to AI/ML.    Automate 2023 is a great opportunity to learn about all that is happening in the automation world. With so many vendors displaying new products and industry experts in attendance to answer questions, there will be something for everyone. The networking opportunities, the ideas born, and the collaborations forged at a conference like this will benefit all attendees and the manufacturing sector as a whole. 