Fluke To Help Grow Solar Workforce, Becomes NABCEP Training Provider Bottlenecks created by skilled labor shortages have created concern for companies looking for sustainable growth. Fluke hopes to limit future bottlenecks in the solar industry by becoming a NABCEP Registered Training Provider. A bottleneck in manufacturing is created whenever any particular link in the process chain is overtaxed and cannot keep up with the rest of the system. Manufacturers spend a lot of time and energy trying to find and fix bottlenecks in their manufacturing processes, but what about bottlenecks related to skilled labor? Sometimes it isn't the machinery that delays a process but a lack of skilled professionals to put the equipment together or to keep it running.    A recent study completed by Rockwell Automation has shown that many manufacturers are struggling to find the skilled workers they need to stay competitive in their respective manufacturing fields. Many manufacturers have started scholarship programs or created other educational means for employees looking to build up their skill level to mitigate the long-term losses that are a side effect of skilled labor shortages. This phenomenon appears to be a common theme across technology-based industries, and Fluke has recently registered to become an educator for workers in the solar industry.  Fluke, a leading manufacturer of industrial tools and software, has recently announced its designation as a North American Board of Certified Energy Practitioners (NABCEP) Registered Training Provider (RTP). The decision comes in anticipation of the continued growth experienced in the solar industry over the past years. From 2011 to 2021, the number of jobs in the solar industry increased from 105,000 to 255,000 jobs, representing a huge increase in skilled labor needed to fill those positions.    Fluke hopes that their recent certifications, in tandem with their new educational programs, will help to prevent any bottlenecking that could be created from a lack of knowledgeable personnel. By becoming a NABCEP RTP, Fluke will be able to help future solar workers improve work safety, efficiency, and accuracy. The course "Tools and Techniques for Commissioning and Maintaining PV Systems," is run by Will White, a certified solar application specialist and educator. The course covers different aspects of the solar industry and includes training in many areas of the trade, including installing, maintaining, and commissioning new solar arrays. The course will also be available online and can help professionals with course hours needed for their NABCEP certification. Some of the hours may also be used to satisfy PV Installation Professional (PVIP) Board Certification hours for individuals looking to complete this certification.    The course covers many topics related to building and maintaining large solar arrays. The course includes information on not only how the arrays are built but also on how to use the different tools needed during the process, including:  Fluke is a global leader in test and measurement equipment. They look to help with the development of sustainable energy industries through the use of their products. The industry has shown sustained growth for the last decade, and they hope to better prepare professionals looking to expand their careers in the solar industry. Their recent training qualifications intend to help prevent future bottlenecks related to a lack of unskilled labor in the solar energy sector. 