Rockwell and Doosan Join Forces Amid U.S.-South Korea Alliance Anniversary In light of the anniversary of the U.S. and South Korea alliance, Rockwell Automation announced its partnership with Doosan Robotics to merge the companies' controllers and robotics and forge new technologies for smart factory operations. Rockwell Automation announced signing a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Seoul-based Doosan Robotics (along with parent company Doosan Corporation), focusing on integrating the companies’ controllers and robots. Under the agreement, Rockwell and Doosan also aim to innovate and create advanced technologies for smart factory establishment, automation facilities, and other customer-focused application areas. In addition to the Rockwell-Doosan MoU, 23 other MoUs were signed between South Korean and U.S. entities.    A ceremony was held for the MoU signing at the luxury Waldorf Astoria hotel in Washington D.C., where officials from Rockwell and Doosan joined the Minister of Trade, Industry, and Energy for South Korea, Lee Chang-Yang. Rockwell’s Vice President of Government and External Affairs, Ed Moreland, expressed pride in signing the agreement, which signals the collaborative development of more efficient and sustainable automation technologies for Doosan and Rockwell’s customers. Moreland was also accompanied by the Regional Director for Rockwell Automation, Korea, Yong Ha Lee; President and Chief Business Officer of Doosan Corporation, Hongsung Moon; and Chief Executive Officer of Doosan Robotics, William Junghoon Ryu.  In September 2019, Doosan and Rockwell made an announcement confirming a strategic collaboration that focused on the joint development of collaborative robots. The duo united their respective strengths—bringing together Doosan’s robotics software and hardware and Rockwell’s comprehensive knowledge of control and automation technologies. Since 2019, the synergistic relationship between the two companies has grown in depth with the continued focus on developing robust cobots for enhancing the efficiency and safety of industrial operations.    Both Hongsung Moon and William Junghoon Ryu accompanied President Yoon Suk Yeol of the Republic of Korea to the 70th Anniversary of the historic U.S.-South Korea Alliance. Other officials were also in attendance and witnessed the second state visit by a leader of the Republic of Korea since 2011. During the anniversary commemoration, President Biden and President Yoon Suk Yeol made several commitments, including the continued collaboration to spur research and development, which supports the growth of an open digital economy and cloud computing. Both presidents committed to developing more secure, transparent, and open 5G and 6G network architectures and devices. Other key commitments centered on supporting the people of the U.S. and the Republic of Korea through investing in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. To this end, the presidents brought forward a new $60 million educational exchange initiative to serve 2,023 individuals from Korea and the U.S. The initiative will include the provision of 200 grants under the Fulbright scholarship program—the highest number of grants made available for STEM in the program’s history.  Rockwell and Doosan’s continued collaboration is expected to provide its customers with new robotic innovations that support more efficient, safe, and productive automation workflows. Combining their expertise and growing their technology portfolio to adapt to changing customer needs will likely help both companies grow market share and enhance revenue growth in the coming years. 