Control.com Connections—Industry Jobs for May 10, 2023 Join us as Control Automation tackles the serious process of job hunting in a light-hearted way. We aim to connect our engineering audience with top-notch companies in the industry. And if you do end up applying to any of these positions, be sure to tell them Control.com sent you! Work from the comfort of your own home. PLC expertise is required. Pants, not as much. HirexHire Remote (ideally CST or EST) Looking for remote work and the opportunity to travel? HirexHire is a client-focused recruiting and talent company looking to fill a position with their client, a tech company focused on building the “Next Generation Manufacturing Enterprise.” The position seeks someone with 1+ years of experience with PLC programming (particularly Allen-Bradley/Rockwell equipment) and who is familiar with the food and beverage or consumer packaged goods industry. A bachelor’s in engineering (or equivalent experience) and good communication skills are also preferred.  Finally, an “entry” level job that doesn’t require 5+ years of experience! POWER Engineers Boise, ID, US New to the industry? POWER Engineers is an employee-owned team of specialists who come together to solve multidisciplinary problems. The company’s Boise-based location seeks a junior engineer eager to gain experience and hands-on opportunities while working with process systems in the food and beverage industry. Adaptability and a willingness to learn are a must for this role.  “The Who once played a show at the mansion of the founder of Tim Hortons. It was the last time Horton heard a Who.” - LanceStratus ABB Energy Industries Burlington or Calgary, Ontario, CA Concerned about sustainability and happen to live in Canada? ABB Energy Industries is a sector of ABB focused on providing sustainable solutions to “drive innovation.” ABB is looking to hire a Systems Project Engineer to join its team. 5-10 years of experience with control systems and registry with a Canadian Engineering association is required.  Are you ready to “renew” your excitement for controls, SCADA, and power engineering? Emerson Pittsburgh, PA, US (Hybrid schedule) Want to be part of a “rapidly growing start-up style group driving sustainable solutions”? Emerson provides services and products worldwide, with a particular focus on the industrial market. The company is looking for someone to take on a client-facing leadership role in North America’s power industry as a controls engineer. A minimum of two years of experience with SCADA and power generation control systems is needed.  Dive into an engaging career working with DCS, PLCs, VFDs, SCADA, and all sorts of other exciting acronyms! ABB Bangalore, Karnataka, IN Are you an experienced engineer familiar with ABB automation systems? ABB is a global powerhouse in automation and electrification. As a Project Engineer in ABB’s Process Automation Business Area for Process Industries, you can expect to design and deliver quality projects to clients. 5-10 years working with DCS/PLC Automation and electrical drives and familiarity with ABB automation systems are desired.  Do you prefer moving electrons or stopping electrons? Well, now you can do BOTH with a career in semiconductor manufacturing! SkyWater Technology Bloomington, MN, USA Do you have a desire to revolutionize the world through technology? SkyWater Technology Is a US-based company that strives to be at the forefront of innovation in semiconductor manufacturing. As an industrial engineer at Skywater, you will apply your technical know-how for factory planning to deliver customer success. The company seeks a motivated individual with 5+ years working with semiconductors as an industrial or manufacturing engineer.  I lost my Nirvana CD. Nevermind. Phoenix Contact Seattle, WA, US Are you looking to travel the wild west? Phoenix Contact is a global powerhouse in all things industrial automation. As a Control System & IIoT Sales Engineer, you can expect to lead a sales team while traveling regionally. A bachelor’s in engineering and an understanding of industrial automation systems, PLC programming, and cloud architecture are all desired for this role.  Would you like to have the ultimate ‘cool’ job to tell all your friends? Installing sensors on robots? Where do I sign up? SICK Auburn Hills, MI, US (remote, field-based) Are you interested in working with customers in the field? When it comes to SICK, think sensors. Working on the Industrial Robotics team as a Systems Application Engineer, you can expect to work closely with customers as a technical expert. Education and experience are required; applicants need to have a four-year degree and 2-5 years spent programming and commissioning robots.  Would you like your available positions featured on Control.com…for free? Fill out this simple Google form, and provide us with a few fun details, like what makes your company awesome and why someone should apply to your position. 