Omega Optimizes Data Collection With Virtual Chart Recorder and Web Server The iServer 2 Series Web Server and Virtual Chart Recorder from Omega Engineering collects, stores, and manages data collected by a variety of sensors, speeding up process monitoring and data logging operations. Omega Engineering has made their iServer 2 Series Web Server and Virtual Chart Recorder available to reduce time spent collecting and analyzing data in process equipment. The iServer 2 collects, stores, and manages data collected by a variety of sensors, then ports them to the Omega Link Ecosystem.   While the system is configurable and highly customizable, it can be deployed rapidly, saving time and stress on the manufacturing plant’s engineering team. According to Mike Curtis, Omega Engineering Product Owner, “While additional configuration options are available, the iServer 2 is shipped so that it is ‘ready-to-go’ for the customer, right out of the box.”  Omega Engineering's iServer 2 is both a data acquisition system and a link to web-based data storage. It can interface with Omega Smart Link probes, meaning it can be used to measure temperature, pressure, humidity, level, and many other physical quantities. Each iServer 2 has two configurable I/O ports that also allow for connections to relays, alarms, and safety lockout systems. The full-color display is configurable to show current or historical data, alarm conditions, and other process-relevant information. Built in a corrosion-resistant, stainless-steel housing, the display is designed for use in the industrial environment. High contrast colors and large font mean process parameters can be read from a distance in a variety of lighting conditions.    Rather than having to worry about changing SD cards, the iServer 2 is connected via USB or Ethernet cable for cloud data storage. Data is directly stored in the Omega Link Ecosystem, allowing for up to 10 years of storage. This is convenient for two reasons: nobody has to worry about how much storage is available for each device, and it adds a layer of data security, as no one in-house server failure will lose the data. The Omega Link Ecosystem is also accessible from multiple points, meaning an engineer can check historical data from their device rather than having to look through an in-house server or physically visit the process equipment. The iServer 2 can be powered directly or use Power Over Ethernet (PoE), depending on which configuration is chosen. In either case, there is a 9 V battery backup to prevent data loss during a power bump.    Any time an engineer can review historical data with ease, process troubleshooting time is reduced. Troubleshooting often requires historical data, which all too often relies on the memory of technicians, scanning through paper logbooks, or going through obsolete media formats like floppy disks or SD cards. The iServer 2 makes this data readily available. The iServer 2’s simple installation also means that engineers can start configuring new instrumentation loops quickly, in some cases, without stopping production. Once it is in place, they can begin to optimize it to suit the needs of the facility. This is a drastic improvement over having to take process equipment offline while the engineers learn how to install and configure the system. 