HIWIN Expands Linear Axis Offerings, Adds Profile Width to Established Technology HIWIN has added to its existing linear motor and cantilever axis product lines, with each model now available with a profile width of 100 mm, making for a compact linear motor axis and a larger, higher-performing cantilever axis. HIWIN is a global company headquartered in Taiwan with subsidiaries around the world. HIWIN supplies motion-related components such as ball screws, linear motors, direct drive rotary tables, AC servo drives and controllers, and servo motors. These components are used in automation to provide motion within a work cell. Expanding its offerings, HIWIN has added a new profile width to its existing linear motor and cantilever axes, available to the European control systems market.    A typical servo motor converts electrical energy into rotary motion. Additional devices, such as linear slides or stages, then convert the rotary motion of the servo motor into a linear motion. Tooling is then mounted on the moving portion of the axis so that objects or parts can be moved to interact with other objects or parts. A linear motor axis performs the same end result as described above, only the motor is integrated into the linear slide. With this configuration, no additional motors are required to be purchased and installed, reducing the system's overall footprint. HIWIN currently has four versions of linear motor axes, with the HT-L model being the newest.    The HT-L system is a heavy-duty linear servo motor axis with eight variations, two of which have a 100 mm profile width. The max stroke ranges from 5,500 mm to 5,350 mm and has a repeatability of +/- 0.005 mm. The 100 mm profile allows the axis to be installed in compact locations where other linear motor axes might not fit. The HT100LA, which is the 100 mm profile variation of the HT-L series, has a max speed of 5 m/s with a max acceleration of 50 m/s2. This linear motor axis is fit for pick-and-place and tooling positioning applications.   A cantilever axis is similar to a linear axis, with the exception of the moving block. On a typical linear axis, the mounting block moves along the body of the axis with the servo motor mounted at one end. With a cantilever axis, the servo motor is mounted to a static block, and the body of the axis moves in and out, similar to a dual pneumatic cylinder. This axis style is typically used in vertical applications where a load needs to be raised and lowered. HIWIN has added to the existing HC-B line of the cantilever axis with a 100 mm profile version. This version allows for a higher payload, from 30 kg to 60 kg. A toothed belt and integrated brake/clamping function drive the axis. These features make the HC100B useful for lifting and vertical applications.    Linear servo axes are commonly used in automation to position tooling and parts accurately. While they are very useful, they can be bulky and take up a lot of space on equipment. HIWIN is trying to combat this problem by offering linear guides in a 100 mm profile. The linear motor axis in the 100 mm profile reduces space even more by not requiring bulky servo motors to be attached. Common usage for these devices is two-axis pick and place units. The HC100B axis would be the Z or vertical axis, while the HT100LA axis would be the Y or horizontal axis. A gripper would then be attached to the end of the vertical axis, and with a control system, users have a simple yet effective pick-and-place device. 