Balluff Introduces Code Reader With USB, Plug-and-play Connectivity Balluff brings USB plug-and-play connectivity to its lineup of sensors, with the BVS01A0 IDENT optical code reader. The new sensor is designed to be compact and intuitive, with the ability to read 1D and 2D codes. When it comes to devices to facilitate automation, Balluff is known around the world for their extensive automation component product line. The Balluff product line ranges from simple sensors and connectors to complex vision systems and software. Recently, Balluff has released a stationary optical USB code reader.    Barcode readers are often used in automation. They tell the control system vital data on the part that is present in the station. Barcodes are also used for tracking purposes; for example, when items are shipped, a tracking number is provided. That number is printed in a barcode form, so manufacturers get a notification when each handler picks up the package and scans the barcode.    Balluff’s latest barcode reader, the BVS01A0 IDENT sensor, is designed to be mounted in a fixed location and has a USB connection, so it is engineered more for connection to IT equipment, such as computers or thin clients. An intuitive green aiming LED is provided so users know where to place the product under the reader. Sound and light indicators alert the operator that the code has been successfully read. The auto-trigger feature detects the brightness alteration when a barcode is placed in front of the reader. Once this brightness is detected, the device will start auto-scanning. For barcodes that are moving underneath the reader, built-in motion tolerance will allow barcodes to be read while moving at up to 2 m/sec. The IDENT sensor is equipped with metal threaded mounting features and is IP65 rated. The auto-trigger, sound indication, and aiming LED can be turned on or off by scanning specific barcodes in the manual. It can read 1D and 2D code types without users having to change settings or install software adapters from 50 to 300 mm away.    Most often, barcode readers are installed after a barcode is printed or when a product is inserted into an assembly line or process. There are many different types of barcodes, each with its decoding tools. Some readers can only read a few other barcodes, and most can only read a small number of barcodes at one time. With the BVS01A0, users can read over 40 different codes, and the reader will also detect up to 16 codes on multiple images simultaneously. Typically, barcode readers connect to control systems through an industrial fieldbus like Ethernet/IP or ProfiNet. The BVSO1A0 connects through USB and uses a serial connection or virtual COM port to interface with computer software. This style of connection is typically found with readers that operators will use to interface with ERP software or MES software instead of commonly found handled readers. When it comes to size, barcode readers can be quite bulky—the BVS01A0 is one of the smallest readers of its class, measuring 24 mm high x 41mm wide x 33 mm deep. 