HMS Networks Expands Anybus Offerings With New Business Line and Wireless Technology HMS Networks has expanded its Anybus portfolio with products and services designed to help diagnose industrial network-related issues and provide seamless wireless connectivity. Hardware Meets Software (HMS) Networks is a well-known developer and supplier of hardware and software solutions for industrial information communication. HMS Networks has added to its offerings with the addition of the AnyBus Diagnostic business line and a WiFi access point. The latest additions were unveiled and demonstrated at Hannover Messe 2023.    Most equipment built today or in the last fifteen years will have some kind of industrial network, and the industry seems to be satisfied with using industrial networks. The problem is that networks can be quite complex, and when users start adding industrial protocols on those networks, it becomes hard to troubleshoot issues. HMS has released its Anybus Diagnostics business line specifically for helping engineers and technicians design, monitor, and diagnose network-related issues.    Too many companies use the set-it-and-forget-it approach when integrating industrial networks. The truth is that networks need to be monitored and maintained, but it is unsustainable to have people staring at network switches all day. With HMS Networks' Anybus Diagnostics, products and services are offered that will permanently monitor users' networks and notify them of any issues, which will help reduce downtime of network and equipment.  Network issues can be difficult to troubleshoot, especially for companies that don’t have years of IT experience. Anybus Diagnostics offers an AI-driven software solution to help troubleshoot network issues quickly and efficiently.    There are many ways of connecting devices to an industrial network—one such way is to daisy-chain network connections. The problem with this approach is that if one device in the chain goes down, the whole network goes down. Anybus Diagnostics provides segmentation products that will divide a network into segments to reduce entire networks from going down.  To assist users of the Anybus Diagnostics products, HMS offers e-learning and certified training programs. The programs are built to provide hands-on experience using the tools offered by Anybus Diagnostics.  As wireless technology becomes more secure and stable, factories are starting to make use of the technology on the factory floor. Using wireless technology greatly reduces infrastructure costs and allows for remote connections for technicians or other wireless technology such as tablets or mobile phones. HMS Networks' Anybus Bolt II is a WiFi 5 with MIMO antennas that offers stable and fast network connections. HTTPS and WPA3 security protocols are supported, and the device is IP66 rated with soon-to-be IP69K ratings. The Bolt II can be used as an access point or bridge network switch. This wireless access point is built for automation and can connect devices over industrial protocols such as Ethernet/IP or PROFINET.    Using a wireless access point like the Bolt II, equipment can be connected without running network cables. Devices such as automated guided vehicles (AGV) can be connected easily to machines when they come into range. This technology allows designers and machine builders to expand the machine network to the entire plant.  HMS Networks' product line includes field bus converters, remote machine access VPN devices, and other industrial communication devices. With the addition of Anybus Diagnostics and the Anybus Wireless Bolt II, HMS aims to provide companies with a greater range of products and services for network-related issues and wireless connectivity. 