8-Port IO-Link Master Designed for Compact and Powerful Edge Processing Banner Engineering has taken steps to improve the usability of IO-Link devices with the release of the compact DXMR110 8-Port IO-Link Master for simplified connection between devices to the control cabinet. IO-Link masters help reduce automation's complexity by simplifying the connections between sensors and low-level devices to the control cabinet. Banner Engineering has taken steps to improve the usability of IO-Link devices with the release of its DXMR110 8-Port IO-Link Master.    IO-Link master devices are a vital tool used in industrial processes. They provide a link from the devices, tools, and sensors that relay information from system operations to the PLC or controlling unit of the system. They allow more information to be relayed than simple discrete or analog-based arrangements while reducing the amount of hardware necessary. IO-Link masters work as a central location for all of the sensors, stack lights, actuators, valves, and solenoids to run back to. The master can then take all the different signals and relay them through industrial Ethernet back to the control cabinet and PLC. The use of an IO-Link master can greatly simplify the communication and wire network necessary for low-level devices, like sensors and valves, to communicate with the PLC.    Banner Engineering's new DXMR110 8-Port IO-Link Master works to consolidate signals and process them before relaying them via Ethernet to the control cabinet. The advanced device is capable of cloud connectivity and has the ability for advanced programming options. Meant to help manufacturers reduce the number of different communication devices necessary, the DXMR110 IO-Link Master is capable of communicating with higher-level control systems via one of three different protocols, including Ethernet/IP, Modbus/TCP, and PROFINET. The flexibility of multiple protocols allows manufacturers to use a single device for more than one task, giving users around the world access to the device. In addition, IO-Link Masters can be daisy-chained and linked together by Ethernet and with the use of power pass-through.  Custom scripts and logic are usable with the DXMR110 with the utilization of ScriptBasic and Action Rules programming. Advanced programming capabilities allow for specific optimization based on customers' individual needs. In addition, edge processing is available, so processing can be moved to where the data is being generated. Edge capabilities help reduce the amount of hardware in the cabinet by eliminating some of the I/O cards necessary in PLCs while simultaneously giving full connectivity through Banner Cloud Data Services.    Banner Engineering has designed the DXMR110 to weigh less than half of most other IO-Link masters on the market (without comprimising functionality). A reduction in weight means that robot payload and speed can be increased for applications where the unit is located at or near the robotic end of arm tooling. Space savings was also considered. When space is at a premium, several IO-Link masters can be placed together using offset brackets with a minimal amount of space increase. To reduce the number of issues manufacturers experience with cord kinking problems, especially in areas with a lot of movement, cord set connections on the sides and ends result in a better cable bend radius.  Banner's DXMR110 8-Port IO-Link Master gives end users unique capabilities, including a multiprotocol and compact design, helping manufacturers improve device connectivity and simplify operations. 