The Largest Automation Trade Show in North America: We’ll See You at Automate 2023! Join our team in attending Automate, the largest automation and robotics trade show in North America, where we’ll highlight control systems, communication, and data optimization from your favorite companies! Mark your calendar for May 22-25 and book your travel plans to Huntington Place in Detroit, MI. Join Control Automation’s engineering and editorial team as we attend the largest robotics and automation trade show in North America, Automate 2023!    Our team already has a lot of exciting meetings booked with some of our favorite technology companies representing a broad range of industries and product catalogs. We’ll be sharing pictures and stories to capture the highlights of current products, trends to expect from the next year, and a look at solutions to some of the industry’s most pressing challenges from over 700 exhibiting companies.    With a packed show schedule, we are excited for a number of one-on-one booth visits and tours with some of the biggest names in robotics and automation.  Industrial computers and edge devices for faster and more efficient IIoT data optimization.  A leader in industrial and collaborative robot technologies.  The founders of EtherCAT technology and pioneer in industrial PC controls.  Vision experts with on-machine and embedded vision and edge AI devices.    The popular yellow industrial robots with many collaborative models sporting the slick white and green color scheme.  Motion and motor drive specialists for your rotary and linear motion demands.  Factory automation and robotics have long been leading capstones among Mitsubishi’s vast product lineup.  A leader in sensing technologies, from optical to safety, to colors, to distance, to condition monitoring… You name it, SICK can sense it!  All things pneumatics: valves and actuators, filtration, process sensing, and industrial communication.    The original pioneers of collaborative robot (cobot) technology, with a presence in hundreds of applications in many thousands of facilities around the globe.  Are you exhibiting control system technology at a booth at Automate this year? We would love to learn about it, and we’ll stop by and see if we can feature your products and stories in our editorial coverage and share the news of your amazing innovations. Just visiting and not exhibiting? We’d still love to hear from you and say hello. Reach out to our editorial team at [email protected], and we’ll get back to you with a schedule of times that we can stop by your booth.    Taking place May 22-25 at the Huntington Place Convention Center in downtown Detroit, MI, it’s going to be a great week. We can’t wait to share the news about all the latest tech that will be driving our automation world forward this year and look forward to learning about all the new products that will ‘Help Engineers, Engineer the Future.’ 