Nokia Launches Additions To Edge Applications For Industry 4.0 Nokia adds third-party software to run on the MX Industrial Edge platform, optimizing data collection and analysis, network security, and vision applications for automation and manufacturing. The concept of the ‘factory of today’ is all about collecting data from equipment. This is the core of Industry 4.0. Based out of Finland, Nokia has over 30 years of critical connectivity experience, which is pivotal for applications where hundreds, if not thousands, of sensors, need to connect and send data to a data collection service. Nokia leverages its expertise in the communication industry to bring industrial solutions to manufacturers and help move their process into industry 4.0.    Recently, Nokia added four new third-party software packages that can run on the MX Industrial Edge, a mission-critical industrial edge solution. The new additions assist enterprise-level companies in collecting, analyzing, and storing data from their production lines securely and remotely.  Collecting data from machine sensors or control systems inside equipment can require multiple protocols, software drivers, and hours of configuring firewalls or security configurations. Litmus Edge reduces this stress with over 300 pre-built drivers and integrated security. After collecting the machine data, calculations, and AI models need to be used to predict when equipment might fail. This industrial edge platform collects and analyzes your machine data to easily detect anomalies, monitor processes, or monitor energy consumption. The software also has machine learning models, predictive maintenance models, and digital twin capabilities.    Any time computer systems are exposed to a network, it is important to ensure that unwanted guests do not find their way into your network. This is especially true with industrial equipment. If somebody were to gain access to an industrial network, they could disrupt production, costing the company thousands of dollars per hour. Palo Alto Networks is taking a different approach to firewalls by using AI and machine learning to protect OT (operation technology) networks from cyber attacks, all without adding additional hardware.  Collecting data from a production line requires not only understanding different network protocols and security configurations but also requires the data to be collected in real-time. Some assembly equipment or food processing equipment operates at blinding speed. If the software facilitating the connecting and analyzing of data has internal latencies, important information could be missed. The Crosser software connects and analyzes over 800 industrial systems in real-time. The Crosser software is designed and built for streaming data between OT devices and cloud applications. You can even use your own algorithms to analyze your data.    Industrial edge computers are not only for data collection. They can also be used to run complex, AI-driven machine vision applications. Atos Computer Vision is a vision application that uses AI and machine learning to improve quality by detecting defects, incorrect machine configurations, or incorrect objects. Vision systems can be time-consuming to configure and set up, but with Atos computer vision, pre-defined models are designed for specific scenarios, which reduces integration time.  IPCs and edge controllers have been gaining a foothold in the manufacturing space because of these flexible software packages. Engineers no longer need to purchase all kinds of new hardware devices and modules to plug into a system, simply an existing network port and a new software add-on allow all kinds of advanced processes to keep systems running efficiently, safely, and reliably for all kinds of industries. 