Pepperl+Fuchs Showcases Latest Sensing Solutions at Hannover Messe 2023 Making an appearance at Hannover Messe 2023, Pepperl+Fuchs showed off its latest in automation, including its newest sensing solutions: a MEMS scanner, ultrasonic sensor, and layer thickness sensor. One of the largest automation expos, Hannover Messe 2023, concluded at the end of April with nearly 67,000 attendees. With over 2,500 exhibitors, a stunning array of new products was introduced to the market. Of these new products, Pepperl+Fuchs demonstrated several of its latest sensors for use in the manufacturing sector. Below are a few of Pepperl+Fuchs' sensors shown at the expo.    The R3000 3D LiDAR/MEMS sensor can measure distances to millimeter accuracy and produce 3D mesh clouds. These mesh clouds can be integrated with autonomous vehicles, where route planning and safe navigation are essential. Suitable from a few centimeters to several hundred meters in standoff distance, these sensors will see use in various industries. These LiDAR sensors raster through space and measure the reflection times to produce millimeter-accurate, three-dimensional maps. It pulses the laser up to 250,000 times per second, testifying to the speed that this sensor can collect data for navigation purposes. However, unlike conventional LiDAR sensors, the beam is bent across a 40° x 30° area. Instead of creating a standard pixel map, it produces a many-node mesh, improving the accuracy.    Pepperl+Fuchs also demonstrated their CANopen L2 ultrasonic sensor line. The CANopen L2 sensors are designed to improve safety around the construction site by detecting workers and equipment movement in the blindspots of large construction equipment. These signals can be integrated with displays for operators or into active safety lockout mechanisms to prohibit machine movement when an object is detected. The sensors can detect distances up to 4000 mm (4 m) and be linked together in an automation system such that their coverage areas produce a continuous, protected zone around heavy equipment. The L2 sensors are easily integrated with Controller Area Network (CAN) devices, commonly found in automobiles, heavy equipment, and other vehicles. Furthermore, several sensors in the family meet E1, a standard that allows them to be used on European public roadways.    Pepperl+Fuchs also offers contactless layer sensors, which can be used to verify the feed of thin sheets, count the number of sheets, detect coating thickness, or other such operations. These sensors are vital to reducing waste in printing operations, as the sensor can verify pages are in place without requiring contact and dragging on the surface, causing tears, jams, or smearing ink. They can also be used for other materials, such as sheet metal, to ensure that only a specified number of sheets enter the next stage in a process. For example, consider a metal shear that can cut through a few sheets at a time but will jam or produce incomplete cuts if too many sheets are fed at once. The M18 and M30 sensor packages use ultrasonic means to check the overall thickness and are generally used to ensure single feeding of materials is performed. However, there is a built-in “teach” function for multilayer materials. The sensors can handle all non-woven materials, from wood paneling to paper to sheet metal, and are unaffected by material color.  Pepperl+Fuchs has been developing automation solutions for over 70 years, focusing on sensors for data collection, robotic feedback, health and safety, and explosion protection. Serving virtually all manufacturing environments, Pepperl+Fuchs products have been successfully implemented in everything from refineries to wastewater treatment plants to alternative energy installations. 