Robot-fried Chicken: Doosan Robotics Cooks Up Its Next Batch of Cobots Doosan looks to bring the benefits of industrial cobots outside of an industrial setting, launching a new series of thirteen cobots for the food & beverage industry. Worker shortages have put a lot of pressure on advancement in the industrial robotics sector to help curb the negative effects of understaffed warehouses, but what about other industries suffering the same fate? Doosan Robotics has recently released a new cobot series capable of working in the food and beverage industry, an industry hit hard by labor shortages.    Doosan Robotics has taken the initiative to use cobots outside of their traditional industrial setting in order to help the food and beverage industry. Cobots offer a unique advantage for food and beverage because they can work alongside humans. This helps to reduce the cost and complications normally associated with industrial robots, which have to be fenced off and follow specific safety protocols. The new cobots can fill many different roles and help to extend the labor production capabilities of the workers in the restaurant.    Doosan Robotics' latest cobot lineup, the E-SERIES, is specifically intended for use in the food and beverage industry. The E stands for the technological "edge" presented to users with the new cobots. The E-SERIES is designed to make nearly any food or beverage. This opens up staff to perform other tasks or reduce the number of workers needed on any given shift. The E-SERIES has been approved by the National Sanitation Foundation (NSF) certification for food hygiene safety, making it safe for use in its intended industry. The joints connecting the axes on the cobot are sealed to provide a higher level of sanitation and to keep the cobot from damage or premature wear related to spills or water ingress during the cleaning process. The cobot is designed to be slim with weight savings in mind, giving it flexibility in workspace location. The arm's reach is almost three feet, allowing it to complete most cooking tasks without overextending its reach capabilities. In addition, a 5 kg payload means the E-SERIES cobot has the lifting capacity to complete nearly any task that requires heavy lifting.   Doosan has done some preliminary testing of the E-SERIES in both the food and beverage industries to test its viability in each environment. The cobots were tested in Robert Chicken, a restaurant designed to be run entirely by robots. Robert Chicken is still in the concept phase of implementation. The cobots were also placed in Doosan Robotic's Dr. Presso to test their capability in making coffee and other beverages. Doosan is in the process of using the E-SERIES for other types of food like baking, BBQ, and other specialized food. The M, A, and H-SERIES are customizable versions of the S-SERIES and can be used to fit into more specialized processes. The cobots will be available for shipping this coming June, and special discounts are available to first-time purchasers. 