Compact Tower IPC Fit for Upright In-Cabinet Requirements Across Industries Advantech has designed its latest control console, the IPC-320 compact tower, with IoT capabilities in mind, giving end users greater functionality in a small, space-saving design. Advantech, a leader in industrial IoT, has released a new industrial PC (IPC), the IPC-320. The IPC-320 comes with a variety of features packed into a compact design, ready for use in cabinets or anywhere a standard IPC is used.    Advantech's IPC-320 can be used in everything from the healthcare industry to heavy manufacturing processes. Some applications in the medical field include medical image processing or as an IPC for laboratory equipment. With a maximum noise level of 34dB, at 100% workload, the quiet IPC-320 can be used in congested areas and lower workplace noise when used for shop floor computers or in other places where IPC noise is a concern. With the hope of creating successful and competitive solutions and services, the IPC fits into Advantech's broader goal of enriching an intelligent planet with IoT technology and helps to advance its goal of providing IPCs for a range of uses in a wide range of industries. Advantech has a wide-reaching, localized support team with stringent product certification service and revision management, giving end users better support and product control for longtime product use.    The IPC-320 was designed to provide stable control for a factory or industrial environment. The compact tower has been built specifically for use in upright cabinets, with a compact footprint that only uses a total of 7.7 liters of cabinet space. The control computer is capable of providing edge computing capabilities whenever needed. Depending on the specific needs of each application, the IPC-320 can accept additional add-on cards in two low-profile expansion slots (1 x PCIe x16 and 1 x PCIe x4). The expansion slots give the IPC a wider range of functionality, making it customizable to different IoT applications. There are different types of cards, including frame grabber, low profile GPU, and COM cards. The IPC-320 comes with I/O (4 x USB 3.2 (Gen1) and 4 x USB 2.0) ports in both the front and rear of the device, making it more adaptable to external connection applications. In addition, displays can be connected via the Dual Independent Display (HDMI/ DP) connection ports. The IPC is available with 250 W 12 V and 5 V output-only single power supply and is compatible with the AIMB-3 series (AIMB-308) motherboard.    Advantech has worked to create a powerful, compact Industrial PC with a wide variety of industrial applications. The IPC has been designed with vertical cabinet space constraints in mind and only uses 7.7 liters of cabinet space. It can be used in heavy industrial settings or the healthcare industry for critical lab equipment. The computer is even qualified for use with Amazon Web Services (AWS) IoT Greengrass. 