Strategic move: ADDiTEC acquires Elem Additive Solutions from Xerox ADDiTEC, a specialist in metal additive manufacturing, has acquired Elem Additive Solutions from Xerox Holdings Corporation. The acquisition of Elem Additive Solutions follows ADDiTEC’s efforts to focus on the extension of its technology portfolio to increase industrial adoption of additive manufacturing, says the company in a press statement. The acquisition will allow ADDiTEC to expand its reach into Liquid Metal Printing (LMP) technology, strengthening existing capabilities, opening up new opportunities for growth and enhancing the ability to serve the growing additive manufacturing industry. “We’re very excited to have completed the acquisition of Elem Additive Solutions,” said Brian Matthews, founder and chief executive officer at ADDiTEC. “This acquisition is a significant step for our company, we see incredible value in liquid metal print technology, and Elem Additive’s success supplements our growth efforts as we continue to develop new offerings and bring to market our turnkey metal additive manufacturing systems. We are delighted to have acquired Elem Additive Solutions and will strive to create further innovative services and solutions for our customers with the addition of this exciting liquid metal printing technology.” Elem Additive Solutions specializes in LMP technology. The company’s liquid metal 3D printer, ElemX, was developed to be a safer and simpler solution, addressing supply chain resiliency for transportation, aerospace, defence and industrial manufacturing. Steve Bandrowczak, chief executive officer at Xerox, says, “The Elem Additive team has seen tremendous success since the organization was stood up nearly four years ago. In evaluating partners for this sale, it was critical we found a company with a shared mission that would sustain and advance Elem Additive’s innovation into the future. We are confident that ADDiTEC is the right partner and look forward to witnessing both teams’ shared success on the road ahead.” 