Motor Control Expanded: Rockwell Automation Announces Product Upgrades Motor control is accomplished by circuit devices from simple contactors to complex frequency drive systems. Rockwell Automation recently added a host of new features and upgrades to common product lines. Here at Control.com, we have a saying: if it moves, lights up, or makes noise, we love it! Automation is all about mechanizing the world with greater efficiency and higher degrees of safety, all with the goal of reducing costs and footprint in an environment that is better for human operators and equipment. Some automation equipment is highly digitized, ready to be integrated with advanced process controllers and cloud data dashboards. But the other end of the spectrum—those devices that perform simple, rugged, yet critical operations on a plant floor—are highly demanded by engineers. Rockwell Automation, the owner of the familiar Allen-Bradley product lines of motor control, recently announced a full upgrade of branch and motor control products.  Rockwell Automation has announced upgraded short-circuit current protection for the 140MT line of circuit breakers.    Every circuit, residential or industrial, must respond to abnormally high current levels to protect the branch devices. Circuit breakers are rated for three different current level ranges: Rockwell’s revised 140MT product line protects up to 50 or 30 kA of short circuit current for 600 V installations (specifically 50 kA for the catalog devices up to 1.6 A trip current and 30 kA for all devices above 1.6 A trip current). The product line is also rated for up to 65 kA in 480 V installations for all but the 10-16 A rated model.  Contactors act similarly to large relays with primary and auxiliary contacts, all designed into a form factor that supports partnering with overload protection. Rockwell’s bulletin 100-E contactors provide starting ability for large motors while simultaneously reducing the energy required to activate the coil. This results in greater operating efficiency (reduced cost) and less thermal energy (longer life), both of which are excellent benefits.    Another benefit of the bulletin 100-E contactor line is an optional integrated PLC driver interface. Typically, a PLC cannot source the current required for a contactor, and a user-supplied relay must be installed. In this product series, the combination of a smaller required coil current and a PLC interface module allows direct connections, reducing installation time and failure point risk.  Along with the contactor and the circuit breaker, special motor overload (OL) relays are often found in partnership with the contactor. This can allow a single circuit breaker to control several motors since the OL relay provides custom protection for each motor.    Rockwell’s upgraded line of OL protection, with the E100/200/300 product lines, not only provides exceptional protection performance but offers a few features that may not always be found in simpler overload devices:  There is always a temptation to expand to a more capable system when replacing motion products, especially with the continuously decreasing cost of digital devices. However, it can always be argued that simple systems pose the lowest risk, and if a complex networked system is not required, these contactor and overload products will always maintain a firm foothold in the world of 3-phase induction motor control. 