Siemens Forms Intralogistics Vertical Market, Offers “Holistic, Systematic” Material Handling Siemens announces its newly-formed vertical market for Intralogistics to help manufacturers in the US introduce and improve digitalization for increased efficiency and safety in plant processes. Siemens recently created an Intralogistics vertical in the United States that looks to help a broad range of customers. Everyone from machine builders to end users stand to benefit from Siemens' newly formed market segment by efficiently capitalizing on and implementing Siemens' technology solutions and expertise.    Siemens’ Intralogistics vertical hopes to provide customers with a systematic and comprehensive approach to materials handling. The best-in-class material handling capabilities of Siemens' technology comes from software solutions, management, and hardware automation. To improve and optimize its Intralogistics vertical, Siemens is looking to help customers improve and increase their use of digitalization. Digitalization helps manufacturers stay competitive by increasing efficiency and allowing for simulation before implementation using digital twins and other technology. Siemens has appointed Joel Thomas as the leader of the Intralogistics vertical, who will be used to educate the next generation of people who will manage warehouse and manufacturing operations for long-term benefit.    Whether it's keeping up with small quantity orders, fast inventory turnover, or sustainability, Siemens has several options available for customers looking to keep up with old and new manufacturing problems. To help facilitate the process, Siemens will help to solve even the smallest problems on the path to a more efficient manufacturing operation. The main tool for optimization and efficiency gains involves using digital twins. Digital twins are digital simulations of real-life processes that give manufacturers the opportunity to experiment and model existing and future operations before the expense and time involved with real-life implementation. Digital twins also enable better workplace design and optimization with the use of collaborative multi-domain engineering processes, giving rise to many new intralogistics possibilities.    While digital twins enable better operational efficiency, cybersecurity helps to reduce costly downtime and issues created by warehouse cyberattacks. Siemens provides "defense in depth" to help users better defend their networks and operations from security threats. The system follows the international standard IEC 62443 as its standard for security. All levels of security are protected simultaneously from both internal and external threats. Access control and copy protection are accounted for in everything from operational to field levels. Safety has been integrated into the core of Intralogistics, and functional safety in machinery and plant settings can be increased using smart technology. In addition to safe, reliable, and efficient equipment, equipment availability can also be increased as a result of smart safety implementation into standard plant equipment.  Digitalization across the entire manufacturing process and between different plants will provide customers with many benefits, including access to the Siemens software portfolio. The portfolio consists of the Supply Chain Suite (SCS), which can be utilized for data-driven analysis, digital simulation, and logistical process optimization. Essentially, any physical or digital changes to plant operations can be tested and analyzed before implementation into the real-world environment. With the combination of digital space and reality, i.e., digital twins, Siemens is continuing its efforts to help customers with the evolution of their automation processes. 