New Possibilities for Power, Data, and Fluid from Fischer Connectors Fischer Connectors has released several new series of heavy-duty cable layouts, allowing reliable fastening of single-pair Ethernet (SPE) and USB 3.2, as well as offerings for combined data and fluid connection. Single-pair Ethernet (SPE) is an emerging technology blending the benefits of universally adopted Ethernet standard messaging systems with a smaller form factor. This communication method features high speed and a compact footprint to facilitate more data capabilities in the modern, sensor-dense world of manufacturing.    Likewise, for device-to-device communication, data and power transfer are critical. For these standards, the Universal Serial Bus (USB) continues to evolve in both consumer and industrial applications. USB 3.0, adopted over a decade ago, has advanced in both data rate and power delivery characteristics, demanding the progress of cables and connectors to support the technology. Just as power and data can ‘flow’ through wires electronically, there are options to combine fluid flow inside the bundle, simultaneously transferring power in many forms through a single cable.  As the name suggests, SPE relies on two wires in a bundle, in contrast to the typical categorical cables with 4x pairs, totaling eight wires. For much of industrial automation, especially at the device level, the complexity of data is smaller than for the rapid transfer of large files in typical networking. Even still, the elimination of 3x wire pairs allows speeds up to 1 Gbit/second, sufficient for most applications.    Fischer Connectors has announced the launch of several new products to facilitate SPE communication in its Fischer Core Series and Fischer Ultimate Series. These connectors are available with push-pull, quick-release, and screw-type fastening systems to meet the needs of many demanding environments. The rated maximum speed for these connectors is 1 Gbit/s, with a protection rating of IP68/IP69. Ruggedness and reliability are among the primary design considerations for these connectors, which are considered to be exceptional for nearly any industry.  The USB protocol allows extremely high data rates but is limited in the number of network connections. For device-to-device communication up to 5 Gbit/s with the generation 1 devices, and up to 10 Gbit/s with generation 2, these connectors are an ideal application.    Fischer Connectors’ new product announcement also includes two distinct sizes, 08 and 10, of the MiniMax series to support these USB channels. In the size 10 frame, power can also be transferred—up to 8 amps of power with multiple robust conductors! The data and power allowance for these new cables establishes new capabilities in harvesting and using data to optimize processes and decrease downtime in partnership with the many IIoT and Industry 4.0 software solutions entering the market in recent years.  Although electricity may be the primary focus of most conductors, the transfer of fluid power is critical for device operation in many cases. By combining a central passageway for fluids, along with electrical conductors distributed around the core, the Fischer Core Series provides options for simpler machine connections.    In terms of fluid ratings, these conductors support pressures of up to 7 bar (about 100 psi) and are rated for up to 10,000 connect/disconnect cycles. Data connection options are various, but up to 5 Gbit/s is possible with Ethernet connection availability.  While control and motion devices receive much of the praise for modern industrial operations, they are supported by the infrastructure of safe, reliable cables and connectors, such as these new SPE and USB offerings, and the fluid transfer capabilities of Fischer Connectors. 