AI-enabled Vision Software Sees Upgrades for Enhanced Capabilities Teledyne DALSA has added new features to its vision processing software, increasing the software's accuracy and speeding up its AI parameters and processing. Teledyne DALSA has released the latest version of its Sapera Vision Software, adding improved features to increase the software's functionality.    Machine vision systems are used in automation for applications such as part detection, surface inspection, and dimensional measurements. The cameras used for these inspections are typically monochrome cameras with Ethernet connectivity. The software behind the camera is just as necessary as the camera itself. The software and computer hardware are where all the image processing is completed. The imaging processing can be complex with image transformations and pattern matching or as simple as edge detection. Some vision systems process the images directly on the camera, and some require a computer on the network to do the image processing.    Some vision applications can be quite complex and require artificial intelligence or higher-end computing hardware. These vision systems will need a computer connected to the camera with special software running. Teledyne DALSA’s Sapera Vision Software is designed for these complex systems. The Sapera software suite comes in three packages.  Saper LT is an image acquisition SDK for Teledyne cameras and frame grabber computer cards. The software is free with Teledyne hardware and includes a GUI for configuring cameras.  Sapera Processing software facilitates image processing, and a library of over 400 image processing tools is included. Tools such as pattern matching, OCR and Barcode reading, blob detection, and color processing, to name a few.  Astrocyte artificial intelligence is becoming very popular with vision systems, and Astrocyte is Teledyne’s AI addition to the Sapera software. Astrocyte is a smart, intuitive graphical interface for training the AI algorithm for object detection segmentation and noise reduction.    Vision software controls the camera, processes the images, and reports the inspection results. Keeping the software up to date ensures that Teledyne stays competitive in the machine vision market. In its latest release, Teledyne added three new features to its Sapera Vision Software.  Automatic hyperparameter tuning is a feature to ease training AI models. Training images for an AI algorithm can require some complex parameters to be set—the automatic tuning feature helps reduce this complexity.  When teaching tools, you want to focus the inspection on an area instead of the whole image. Region of Interest (ROI) is a graphical shape that focuses on the inspection area. Teledyne has added the ability to add a circle, tori, polygons, and brush-shaped ROI for a more accurate inspection.  AI algorithms can take up a lot of computing resources, which slows down or buffers the inspection process. When used in automated assembly, the vision system can't be allowed to slow down the process. Teledyne has increased the speed of deployment on both CPU and GPU.  Teledyne DALSA designs, develops, and manufactures machine vision systems for the industrial automation market. Their product line ranges from 3D cameras to frame grabber cards to the software required to utilize machine vision hardware. With headquarters located in Waterloo, Ontario, Canada, Teledyne has sales offices worldwide and over 1000 employees. 