DOBOT Magician E6 Sneak Peek: The Latest in Robotics Education Dobot gives customers a sneak peek of its latest robot designed for education, the DOBOT Magician E6, designed to further the companies commitment to familiarize students with automation and robotics. Dobot announced that their latest Magician robot for education,  the DOBOT Magician E6, will make its first appearance on March 29th at the British Educational Training and Technology 2023 show in London. The Magician E6 is the latest in a line of education robots geared toward teaching automation and robotics principles to students and entry-level workers. While the Magician E6 may not show up in any particular industrial site, it is still a capable robot and will provide a cost-effective and safe tool for learning the basics of robotics and control theory.   Complex automation systems with multiple robots, autonomous vehicles, artificial intelligence (AI), and layers of control theory are not learned overnight. While a company may be able to train an operator on one piece or another at any given time, there is a definite need for incoming robotics talent. The disconnect between formal schooling and practical skills is becoming so large that high school students are unprepared to enter the manufacturing workforce. Instead of "How does that robot run the CNC lathe?" they might ask, "What's a lathe?" Full-blown automation systems are often cost-prohibitive to include in K-12 classrooms or community college-level classes. The Magician series robots are designed specifically for the needs of the classroom in hopes of filling in some of these knowledge gaps.    Designed for the desktop surface, the DOBOT Magician E6 features plenty of plug-and-play accessories. They can perform visual inspections, 3D printing, gripping, conveyor belt operation, and many others. The E6 robot can be programmed via smart devices or computers via WiFi or Bluetooth connections, meaning expensive programming hardware and software are not required. For younger operators, the robot can be "taught" operations by physically manipulating the arm. This is particularly useful for encouraging an interest in robotics, especially for those who may not be ready to learn to code. Perhaps the most important feature of the robots is their ability to perform safely. Robots in the industrial environment are powerful and potentially capable of injuring an operator if given the wrong command or malfunctioning in some way. With their small size and design for schools, these robots can be safely operated by one person without the fear of crushed fingers.    At first glance, it may seem like a failed business model—instead of focusing entirely on industrial applications and expensive automation systems, Dobot did something different; they focused part of their efforts on education. In the long run, this will be a smart strategy. With current labor shortages and the skills gap between what is required and what is available in the labor market, students entering the workforce with some background in robotics will be at an advantage. As they progress through their careers, which robots will they likely pick when new automation is needed? Dobot is playing the long game, which is challenging in the fast-paced world of automation, but will likely pay off. 