Honeywell Seeks to Close Interoperability Gap with Expanded Robotic and Automation Solutions Honeywell has unveiled the expansion of its latest hardware and software solutions to help bridge the automation interoperability gap, demoing their new solutions at ProMat 2023 in Chicago. In recent news, Honeywell unveiled the expansion of its latest hardware and software solutions to help bridge the automation interoperability gap. In addition to interoperability issues, Honeywell seeks to provide automation and robotics solutions to tackle the ongoing labor shortage and improve operational efficiency within warehouses and distribution centers. Honeywell is demonstrating its solutions at the materials handling and logistics trade show, ProMat 2023, in Chicago, between March 20-23 (booth #S618).   The interoperability gap in automation refers to the challenge of integrating different automated systems, software applications, and hardware components that do not work together cohesively. This gap arises due to the proliferation of specialized automation technologies, each with its own unique interfaces, protocols, and data formats. For example, a manufacturing plant may have separate systems for production scheduling, inventory management, quality control, and maintenance, each using different software and hardware components. These systems may not communicate with each other, leading to inefficiencies, errors, and delays in the manufacturing process. Addressing the interoperability gap requires the use of standardized interfaces, protocols, and data formats that allow different systems to exchange information and work together seamlessly. This requires collaboration between different technology vendors, industry associations, and standard-setting bodies to develop and promote interoperability standards.    Honeywell will be demoing a number of its expanded solutions at ProMat 2023. The Honeywell Universal Robotics Controller (HURC) will help customers integrate software and robotics to create a more cohesive automation ecosystem. Robots can learn from one another in this central system, exchanging information and data more fluidly. With improved communication, tasks can be deployed and implemented more rapidly. This can also lead to improved performance and potential automation scale-up. Honeywell Forge Connected Warehouse provides customers with a comprehensive perspective of corporate operations, assisting with reporting and data analysis. Users of Honeywell Forge can also manage inventory levels, monitor trends, reduce waste, and evaluate asset health. ProMat attendees and fellow exhibitors can also visit Honeywell’s booth (#S618) to learn more about the company’s Automated Storage and Retrieval System (AS/RS) and Smart Flexible Depalletizer. According to Honeywell, the AS/RS system uses machine learning (ML) and artificial intelligence to assist warehouse personnel with the order fulfillment process and does so with up to 99 percent accuracy. It is powered by the Momentum Warehouse Execution System, which also uses ML, along with data-backed optimization methodologies, to corroborate diverse automation systems. The Smart Flexible Depalletizer can process an assortment of pallets or single pallets bearing stock-keeping units without human intervention. The depalletizer can move 600 packages from pallets to a conveyor belt (or manipulated for further handling) per hour. Honeywell says this equates to an efficiency boost of 30 percent over manual handling.    The growth in the eCommerce industry was prominent during the coronavirus pandemic, with everyone resorting to online (instead of risky in-person) shopping to get in the necessities and payday treats. According to Forbes, online shopping increased by as much as 55 percent during the last two years of Covid. Since then, the eCommerce industry has continued to grow, and automated warehouse technology has evolved. According to Acumen Research and Consulting, the global warehouse automation market is projected to grow by $45,702 million between 2021 and 2030 to reach $64,639. Other key drivers behind the growth of the market include the rise in the adoption of robots (such as autonomous mobile robots) and IoT technologies. With its latest industrial automation and robotics solutions, Honeywell expects to help companies meet growing consumer demands. 