Rockwell Automation’s Investment Brings Industrial OS to Logix Controllers Rockwell Automation has invested in READY Robotics with the goal of reducing the complexity of PLC programming by linking an intuitive, easy-to-use interface to its Logix brand of PLC controllers and software. Just about everybody that works in or deals with automation knows of Rockwell Automation and some of the software in their product portfolio. Their claim to fame is the Studio 5000 PLC programming software suite, which now includes HMI development along with PLC IDE. Recently, Rockwell announced an investment in READY Robotics to integrate the company's ForgeOS platform into Rockwell’s line of Logix controllers and software to provide a simulation platform that will help compete with competitors' digital twin software.    With many different robot manufacturers all having their own style of programming language and teach pendant, OEMs can become overwhelmed and spend countless hours learning new robot manufacturers’ functions and interfaces. READY Robotics has created a software and hardware platform, ForgeOS, that can program and control any of the popular brands of industrial robots. The programming interface is designed to be intuitive and easy to use, reducing the integration phase of robotic solutions. ForgeOS has a mobile phone-like application that assists with creating robot paths and functions. The software resides on a tablet-like teach pendant that also works as an operator interface for jogging and teaching positions.    ForgeOS has already created a robot simulator that allows the user to simulate the whole robot program. Once the simulation is complete, the entire project can be downloaded to the physical robot. By linking ForgeOS with Logix controllers and software, Rockwell hopes to make robot and industrial automation deployment easier and quicker for its customers. Rockwell's vice president and general manager, Matheus Bulho, expressed his enthusiasm on the investment: “We are excited to work with READY Robotics to help further simplify the use of diverse robotic systems in automation solutions for our customers. Linking the intuitive ForgeOS software suite with Logix control, design, and emulation capabilities allows a broader range of businesses to implement these powerful tools and spend less time getting their systems up and running."    PLC programming has come a long way since its birth in the late 60s. Ladder logic is built on relay ladder logic but has started to take on functions other than just inputs and outputs. PLCs are now capable of Ethernet socket communications, serial interfaces, and complex math functions. Robot programming has also become increasingly complicated, which is why READY Robotics developed ForgeOS, which takes the complexity out of robot programming. Rockwell Automation hopes that READY Robotics will be able to reduce the complexity of PLC programming and develop an intuitive, easy-to-use interface for its Logix brand of PLC controllers. 