Control Automation Day 2023: What You Missed (But Can Still Watch On Demand) Control Automation Day 2023 may be over, but there is still time to access all of our great content! Be sure to check out our presentations on demand and stop by our virtual booths. Even though Control Automation Day 2023 is over, you can still watch all of the day’s presentations and check out all of the day’s content in the vendor booths.    Congratulations to the winner of our grand prize giveaway, Javier A.! We hope your new Ender-3 S1 Pro 3D Printer, plus a laser engraving module and supplies brought to you by Mouser Electronics, will see use in some exciting projects. We’d love to learn about these in the upcoming weeks.  Control Automation Day 2023 - On Demand Go to our registration page to check out our exciting and informative presentations from our hosts and guests, and be sure to share them with your friends and colleagues who might not have been able to join the live sessions.  We are proud to have presented an exciting lineup of keynotes from experts in the industry—hosted by our EETech engineering team!  IoT: Where Data is the Center of Business and Process Decisions - On Demand David and Arvind discuss how effective implementation of the IoT serves both engineers and business leaders, with data playing an important role in business and process decisions.    Leveraging Industrial Technology for the Future of Energy Generation - On Demand Watch as Achalesh shares information on how digital transformation technologies are being used to overcome unique challenges in the energy and utilities industries and provides viewers with a glimpse into the future of energy generation.    Connecting Engineers with Data Using Easy Secure IIoT - On Demand Join Dave as he provides an inside look at the process of Industrial IoT development at Phoenix Contact and discusses how to ease into IoT implementation to achieve large-scale process optimization.    We are also proud to have presented an exciting lineup of sessions from experts in the industry—once again, hosted by our EETech engineering team!  Access and Monitor Your Critical Machine Data in Real Time - On Demand Watch as Balluff showcases its easy-to-use Condition Monitoring Tool Kit (CMTK) for real-time capturing and analyzing of critical machine data. The CMTK is a self-sufficient system that stores data independently of cloud and machine control.  Increase Operational Efficiency with Edge Learning Solutions - On Demand Learn more about edge AI as Cognex demonstrates its edge learning solutions for improved manufacturing that don’t require as large of image sets and as long of training times as traditional solutions.  Engineering Tutorial: Getting Started with a Benchtop IIoT Remote Data Project - On Demand And remember to check out our hands-on engineering tutorial from our very own Control Automation engineering team! We present a small-scale project to access and control systems remotely. All you need is a simple PLC and motor system.  From all of us here at Control Automation and EETech, thanks for joining us as we help Engineers to Engineer the Future! Be sure to watch our sessions on demand and stay tuned for more educational events like this in the coming months! 