A How-to Guide to Control Automation Day 2023 Welcome to Control Automation Day 2023—Control.com’s digital-only event for engineers! Here is your guide to navigating the keynote addresses, live educational sessions, and exciting giveaways from your favorite manufacturers! We're proud to launch our 2023 event—all about applications of the Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT)—bright and early tomorrow morning. Who: Control system engineers, technicians, students, instructors, and enthusiasts What: Industry-leading keynote addresses, live sessions, a digital expo of products and features, and exciting news and educational automation content! Where: Right here on Control Automation When: Tuesday, March 14th, 2023, plus the entire week of exciting Industrial IoT-related content to check out Why: Updates on technology from your most trusted brands, access to exclusive educational content, advice from experts across the industry, and membership to a network of like-minded control engineers and technicians. Catch up with your most trusted companies and discover something new every day. Each company's booth is packed to the brim with information and discovery about new products to energize your processes and simplify your workflow. You can navigate to an individual exhibitor's page by clicking on the company logo found on the Control Automation Day landing page.  If you're ready to start signing up for any of the Control Automation Day events now, visit the registration page:    If you're already a community member on Control.com, you can use the same login credentials to register. If not, we encourage you to sign up and participate in all the additional content and forum benefits the other members already receive!  We're proud to present this lineup of keynote and live sessions from industry experts hosted by our EETech engineering team!    Engineers expect data to be used to drive processes more safely and efficiently with less downtime, while business leaders base decisions on increased profits and forecasts of promising ROI. Join Rockwell Automation’s Senior Director for Advanced Technology, Dave Vasko (right), along with Global Vice President of Industry Solutions, Arvind Rao (left), to learn how effective IIoT implementation satisfies both divisions, allowing teamwork and coordination for future success.    Product manufacturing and warehouse logistic business processes rely on data to maintain a constant optimized output. But for the energy industry, many unique challenges are faced, which require the continuous use of technology to run efficiently with large-scale equipment. Learn from GE Digital’s Vice President of AI and Digital Transformation, Achalesh Pandey, about the digital transformation technologies driving the energy and utilities industries from one of the top global manufacturers who work hand-in-hand with engineers and executives to deliver modern solutions.    IoT implementation relies on the principle of scalability to begin a project at a small scale, easing the development into large-scale process optimization. Learn about the process of IIoT development from Dave Eifert, Senior Business Development Manager for Industrial IoT at Phoenix Contact, working with engineers and integrators alike to select the right projects to enhance predictive maintenance solutions while paving the way for scaling those projects into facility-wide development across many types of equipment.  Check out the full schedule of Live Sessions on the homepage. Check the starting times of each event, listed in ET and PT.  Leveraging Time Sensitive Networks for Distributed Intelligence on the Factory Floor Evolution toward the industrial IoT, or industry 4.0, requires more than real-time data exchange. It requires collecting and sharing a massive amount of information from edge to cloud to execute a process but also optimize it and anticipate possible outcomes. Time-Sensitive Networks and a new generation of industrial protocols are meant to meet the challenges of the 4th Industrial Revolution and support the deployment of a new generation of intelligent systems based on distribution rather than concentration. Register for NXP’s Live Session  Increase Operational Efficiency with Edge Learning Solutions Edge learning is a subset of AI in which processing takes place on-device, or “at the edge,” using a pre-trained set of algorithms. Cognex edge learning technology is simple to set up, requiring vastly smaller image sets and shorter training and validation periods than traditional deep learning-based solutions. Cognex edge learning solutions can help manufacturers identify and correct errors, reduce scrap and enable you to use data to improve processes. Register for Cognex’s Live Session  Automate Your Factory Floor Through a Single Digital Manufacturing Automation Platform Most manufacturing plants have little to no automation. This is because automation technology was developed and priced for high-throughput manufacturing, and manufacturers with high-mix production and low volumes are unable to afford it. However, as cloud technology, robotics, and machine vision converge, the industrial automation industry is beginning to democratize, which is good news for both the industry and high-mix manufacturers. Register for Vention’s Live Session  You'll receive emails containing event information from the BigMarker Live Session platform to remind you of upcoming registered sessions and grant access to on-demand content after the fact. Make sure to have your phone handy with the calendar reminder or alarm, so you don’t miss the session—and listen along even if you’re hard at work.  All conference registrants are automatically entered into drawings for one of 20 giveaway prize packages, including a Control Automation T-shirt and 6-in-1 multi-use tool, along with the grand prize giveaway of an upgraded Ender-3 S1 Pro 3D Printer + laser engraving module (plus supplies) for your personal use, courtesy of Mouser Electronics. The more sessions you register and attend, the more chances you have to win!  We're excited to share our Control Automation Day with the community. See you tomorrow! 