From Our Textbook to Tools, Videos to News, We’ve Got It All Under Control Whether you're a student learning new concepts or a seasoned engineer catching up on the latest industry solutions, from our textbook to tools, videos to news, we’ve got it all under control.   Want to learn about the industrial IoT from leading engineers at some of the most well-known companies? Would you like to get hands-on with a benchtop IIoT tutorial project? Our one-day, free-to-attend virtual conference for control engineers will provide you with practical information and industry insights about the Industrial IoT. Learn more about what you can expect from our keynote presentations and live sessions, and be sure to register. And don’t worry if you can’t attend live—all of the events can still be watched on demand after the day is over, so stay tuned and share with your friends!    Control Automation is on YouTube! Learn from our engineering team as we walk you through common control engineering topics, challenges, and industry solutions. Introduction to Programmable Logic Controllers (PLCs) Programmable Logic Controller (PLC) Hardware PLC Discrete Inputs PLC Discrete Outputs  Our tools page is a one-stop shop for your conversion needs, whether you're looking to find flow rate in a fluid-controlled system or need to perform a power unit conversion.  Our textbook is now easier than ever to navigate through. Be sure to check out some of our recently updated chapters, including: Basics of Programmable Logic Controllers (PLCs) Electric Power Measurement and Control Systems Closed-loop Control Systems  We recently added a 3-phase Motor Wiring eBook to our lineup of eBooks, but our downloadable content doesn’t stop there: Control eBook: The Complete Guide to 3-phase Motor Wiring Control eBook: The Guide to Digital Multimeters Control eBook: The Guide To Source and Sink Controller Wiring with PNP and NPN Devices    At the start of February, Control Automation had the opportunity to attend ATX West in Anaheim for a hands-on look at some of the latest control automation technology and meet with well-known and upcoming companies. Check out our ATX West related content: Day 1 Wrap-up: ATX West 2023 Show ATX West 2023 Technology Highlight: PLCs with Additional Capabilities Technology Highlights from ATX West 2023 - Magnetic Conveyance Deploying a Robotic Workforce: Universal Robots and Yaskawa Motoman Partner with RaaS Company  Make sure to connect with us to stay up to date with the latest control automation content! Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube 