ABB Opens R&D Facility to Reinvigorate Pulp and Paper Manufacturing ABB has opened a global research and development center in Dundalk, Ireland, to advance innovation and integrate sustainable operations in pulp and paper manufacturing. The global technology company, ABB, has opened a multimillion-dollar research and development (R&D) center in Dundalk, Ireland. The center will support a new generation of papermakers as they innovate manufacturing processes, integrate sustainable practices, and generate quality products to cater to different customer specifications. The government of Ireland welcomes the project and is providing support through the Industrial Development Agency Ireland, an agency dedicated to bringing foreign direct investment into the Emerald Isle.    Pulp and paper manufacturing begins with the selection of raw materials, such as wood chips, which are then processed into pulp. This pulp is then used to make paper products such as cardboard boxes, writing paper, and tissue paper. The process also includes bleaching and other chemical treatments to improve the quality of the final product. After these steps, the pulp and paper are ready for packaging and distribution to customers around the world. The carbon footprint of pulp and paper making is an important factor to consider when evaluating the sustainability of paper production. The process of making pulp and paper produces a variety of emissions, including carbon dioxide (CO2), methane, nitrous oxide, and other greenhouse gases. These emissions come from various stages in the process, such as energy use for boiling, bleaching, and drying; chemical use for pulping; fuel combustion for transportation; and wastewater treatment.    Research and development of ABB's Quality Control System (QCS) will take place at the new center, including using the system to find ways of reducing the yearly waste produced during pulp and paper manufacturing. According to ABB, an updated QCS could reduce production losses by 2% or more for each paper machine, which is equivalent to cutting CO2 emissions by 1.1 kt. This is under the assumption that each machine (whether board, tissue, or paper) emits 57 kt of CO2.  ABB’s new R&D center at Dundalk stands alongside three others located in Singapore, Bangalore, and Stockholm. It will promote more sustainable methods of production and improve the quality of products from pulp and paper manufacturing. The Dundalk-based center will also open up 30 professional job opportunities to the local community in Louth and individuals further outside of the county. ABB will use the new center as a sales and service office for its Robotics and Discrete Automation business unit, which has been operating in Ireland for around 25 years. ABB has brought valuable business to Ireland for 40 years and has 180 workers peppered across the island at five locations. As business continues to develop, the company will grow its existing workforce to create a STEM-focused team with expertise in software, mechanics, electronics, physics, management, engineering, and sales.    To aid employee training, the new R&D center will utilize next-generation technologies, including collaborative robots, 3D printing, field service delivery, and virtual/augmented reality. The site’s new training hub will promote skills development among ABB team members and help support the company’s existing customer base. Taken together, the presence of the new Dundalk-based R&D center, along with plans for continued business and employment growth, is expected to have a positive impact on Ireland’s economy. 