SensoPart Connects Universal Robots’ Cobots and Vision Sensors Seamlessly SensoPart’s latest version of its VISOR Robotic URCap application demonstrates the flexibility and ease of use required by modern factories, where demands and product lines shift rapidly. SensoPart is now offering the latest version (2.0) of their VISOR® Robotic URCap software package. The VISOR Robotic URCap application is designed to integrate up to eight of SensoPart’s VISOR Robotic sensors with Universal Robots’ collaborative robots using a set of preset routines and “one-click” interfacing.   The URCap software is designed to interface SensoPart’s VISOR Robotic’s sensors with UR cobots. The VISOR Robotic is part of the extensive VISOR vision sensor family. With its five fast and robust detection methods for locating components, it represents the perfect solution for a wide variety of automation tasks. With the integrated Target Mark 3D technology, 3D object poses are determined in the shortest possible time. Thanks to the fully automatic and flexible calibration methods, both stationary and mounting on the robot arm are possible. In addition to its robotics functions, the VISOR Robotic offers all inspection, measurement, and identification functions of the VISOR framework. Packed in a robust, compact housing, the vision sensor can capture images up to 5 megapixels. The evaluation of the results takes place directly in the camera—an additional PC is not required.    The original version of URCap was released in 2018, however, following a recent update to the capabilities of their VISOR product line, SensoPart also updated the URCap’s properties to match. The old URCap was only able to adopt two calibration methods and only had one pick note for one part. SensoPart’s new URCap, however, includes all calibration methods and one pick note for one and multiple parts. In addition, URCap 2.0 includes SensoPart’s Target Mark 3D technology and now offers offset functions. The new URCap has also been updated to be more user friendly, with ease of setup and calibration. SensoPart offers a library of common operations, a simplified interface, and QR codes to tutorial videos for each step of the process to help even the most novice programmer integrate VISOR robots into an automation system.  The VISOR Robotic vision sensors, paired with a UR cobot, are fit for use in machine tending, picking, packing, assembly, quality control, and feeding operations. This makes them capable of an unlimited number of tasks in the manufacturing plant. In particular, this system will simplify inspection tasks when paired with machine vision cameras and other such equipment. It will also see use in small assembly tasks, including assembling the packaging for shipping. With the use of SensoPart’s URCap application, virtually anyone in the plant can be upskilled into an automation technician. The ease of interfacing and quick installation and configuration means that workers who were otherwise unable to participate in automation can now become involved. Any time factory floor workers upskill, new ideas and new experiences are brought to the table. This also frees up automation engineers to work on more difficult tasks.    The real advantage of this system is the ease of setup. With several videos on their website demonstrating “15 minute” setups, even the most robot-shy, unskilled labor can build up some skills programming the automation system. It will keep engineers developing new products instead of pulling them in to perform complex coding. The quick setup allows the same robot to be pulled from one assembly line to another for prototyping or efficiency studies without requiring extensive reprogramming. With its latest updates, the VISOR Robotic URCap demonstrates the flexibility and ease of use required by modern factories, where demands and product lines shift rapidly. 