Control.com Announces Control Automation Day 2023! Control Automation Day 2023 will be on March 14th, focusing on the Industrial IoT, packed with keynote addresses, educational live sessions, and exciting giveaways from your favorite manufacturers! In case you haven’t yet heard, EETech’s Control Automation team will be joined once again by manufacturers, vendors, and integrators at the forefront of the Industrial IoT in today’s manufacturing world. We are proud to announce Control Automation Day 2023! Sponsored by Mouser Electronics and held on March 14th, attendees can expect a virtual day filled with insights, education, and chances for some exciting giveaways from your favorite brands.   IoT capabilities are found across industries in nearly every modern piece of hardware and software: everything from robots and sensors, to cloud service applications and controllers. Many engineers, however, are still faced with questions about how to integrate the IoT in their industrial manufacturing operations. Go beyond the buzz and learn how industry leaders are using IoT capabilities to make smart business and process decisions and what that might mean for your operations. Keynote addresses and sessions with live Q&A will be hosted by EETech’s very own electrical and mechanical engineering team, certain to deliver the most exciting trends and information to help you solve problems and achieve future goals. And we’ll have some fun while we’re at it! Our goal is to provide valuable insights for everyone, regardless of industry application or skill level—from student or entry-level engineer to seasoned control automation veteran.  David Vasko, Senior Director for Advanced Technology (left), and Arvid Rao, Global Vice President of Industry Solutions (right), at Rockwell Automation.    David and Arvind will be discussing how effective implementation of the IoT serves both engineers and business leaders, with data playing an important role in business and process decisions.  Achalesh Pandey, Vice President of AI and Digital Transformation at GE Digital.    Achalesh will share information on how digital transformation technologies are being used to overcome unique challenges in the energy and utilities industries and provide a glimpse into the future of energy generation.  Dave Eifert, Senior Business Development Manager focused on Industrial IoT, at Phoenix Contact.   Dave will provide an inside look at the process of Industrial IoT development at Phoenix Contact and discuss how to ease into IoT implementation to achieve large-scale process optimization.  Since these will be virtual presentations, you can tune in with your headset while working, no matter where you are, or sit down at your desk or during lunch break to learn some new insights about the future of technology in your own facility. Join Control Automation for the day, and encourage your team to join along with you as we help to build a better future for engineers, their organizations, and the entire world! Register for free today at https://control.com/events/control-automation-day-2023/ 