“Four Times More Performance”: B&R Unveils Backplane Bus for X20 System Greater I/O and computing power are becoming necessary as automation takes on more tasks. With its latest offering, B&R aims to stay ahead of competitors by offering faster control systems with more rapid I/O capabilities. B&R Industrial Automation, a company well known for its panel and industrial PCs, is now offering greater performance for its flagship PLC, the X20. The X20 control system comes in three offerings: Compact-S, Embedded, and the standard X20. These PLCs feature PC-like hardware and expandable I/O with features that can expand users existing automation implantation. With the X20 being PC-like, users get features only found on a traditional PC, such as writing to text files, direct connection to databases, HTML 5 HMI application, and MQTT communication. These features allow machine integrators to develop systems without additional devices or gateways.   The communication protocol used by B&R for the inputs and outputs to the controller is called X2X Link. This protocol is used on the PLC's backplane and for remote I/O up to 100 m from the power supply and controller. Using the same protocol eliminates the need for extra bus controllers or communication devices. The protocol uses standard copper wires with twisted pairs to reduce noise in the signal.  Recently B&R announced the option to add X2X+ when selecting a backplane bus for the X20 PLC. This new bus allows more data to transfer quickly across the system, making large I/O requirements or large data transfers more manageable for the control system architecture. The X2X+ is said to have four times faster response time compared to X2X Link, which makes applications like complex high-speed processes easy to manage. Within Automation Studio (B&R's programming environment), users can set up different cycle times and assign variables or I/O's to high-speed or slow-speed cycles. The x20 PLC family has a scan time typically less than 800 μs. Combining these features with the X2X+ allows for a more efficient network with greater speeds.   Some applications require a high sampling rate, such as measuring vibrations like sound waves. In order to take these measurements, the control system needs to scan the input channels and process the logic at least twice as fast as the signals are changing. Typical PLCs require additional devices, such as high-speed digital inputs or a completely separate DAQ system, to sample at high rates. Some of these devices will require close proximity to the vibration source to reduce loss within the protocols and will come at a very high cost. With the increased speed and the ability to separate time-sensitive devices, the X2X+ aims to replace those high-cost devices. The X2X+ also has a maximum distance of 100 m which can save on expensive cabling.  As industrial automation takes on more tasks, more I/O and greater computing power are becoming increasingly necessary. With its latest offering, B&R aims to stay ahead of its competitors by offering faster control systems with more rapid I/O capabilities. 