Day 1 Wrap-up: ATX West 2023 Show Robots, sensors, and automation instruments were just a few of the sights and sounds from ATX West in Anaheim, CA. Our team shares some great insights from Day 1 at the show! Tuesday, Feb 7th, 2023 was the first day of the Automation Technology Expo (ATX) West, held at the Anaheim Convention Center. Our team was able to meet with a number of companies presenting innovations in several areas of automation technology, including robotics, sensing technology, and other automation controls.  Balluff is a company known for sensors, providing keen advantages for users of IO-Link networks. In addition to just the sensors, Balluff’s catalog includes tools for connecting these IO-Link devices, as well as many other peripheral product lines.    One of the highlighted applications of sensing was not the typical data collection about critical process parameters, such as the presence of an object or the temperature of a fluid. Instead, the Condition Monitoring Tool Kit (CMTK) allows the collection of data about the machines themselves—the temperature, vibration characteristics, humidity, etc. In the image above, one of these sensors is attached to a motor with an offset weight to demonstrate vibration sensing. This is useful in providing analysis of the equipment's lifecycle, preventing costly breakdowns. This is the first step in an effective IIoT transformation process.  FANUC is one of the leaders in robotic technology and more recently in collaborative robots as well with the relatively new line of CRX cobots. Recognized around the world for their striking yellow appearance (with variations for specialty applications), these robots are easy to spot. The collaborative series (CR and CRX) have been given a green color to denote the improved workforce safety properties.   Having introduced several CRX bots over the past year, an exciting revelation at this show was the ability of the CRX 20iA to boast a 30 kg payload under special circumstances. This is a major boost to productivity with the ability to lift 50% more product with a single pick, especially for palletizing applications as was demonstrated at the show.  One of the pioneers in the collaborative robot space, Universal Robots (UR) provides customers with a few advantages for a number of particular applications. Partner companies provide end tools that not only consist of functional hardware but software add-ins to the robot OS so that the entire programming experience is as simplified as it can be. These hardware and software combo kits are collectively called the UR+ ecosystem.    The ecosystem is not simply limited to an end effector with a graphical representation on the screen. In a partnership with RobotIQ, the largest UR models can be set up with simple, graphical palletizing programs that enable even novice users to install and deploy a system in a very short time.  Some companies specialize in certain product lines—others provide a wide variety of control system elements. Most devices, on their own, can be compatible with similar ones from other manufacturers, but purchasing entire systems can provide some serious advantages. Autonics is one company with a catalog spanning many product lines.    Product highlights from Autonics include temperature controllers and solid state relays that control many heater devices. In addition to more simple relays, new phase firing controllers (pictured above) can provide AC devices, both single phase and three phase, with a sort of variable power control, much like PWM in a DC system.                           