Taking Building Automation Into the Future With “Industry Firsts” PassiveLogic has released and will showcase their "industry first" building automation ecosystem of hardware and software solutions to make building systems more efficient and autonomous. PassiveLogic, a provider of AI-driven automation solutions, will demonstrate its building automation ecosystem built on PassiveLogic's foundational technology, Quantum, at the AHR Expo in Atlanta. The Quantum Engine is a revolutionary new technology that promises to deliver unprecedented control and optimization of energy systems.    Building automation is one sector that is commonly overlooked when it comes to automation. Many systems exist within a building, from HVAC to elevator control to lighting. All of these systems need to be monitored and controlled at some level. Some automation controllers currently exist on the market today for building automation, like the BAS from Schneider Electric. The difference between these systems and the latest system from PassiveLogic is the input and algorithms.    With most building automation systems, the controller relies on feedback from sensors in the real world to make decisions on what to turn on or off. For example, when the temperature of a room increases beyond a setpoint, baffles or vents are open, or a furnace turns on to allow warm air into the room. This style of automation has worked for quite some time, but just like a factory, to increase efficiency and reduce waste, processes should be automated with advanced automation. Digital twins are when a replica is built within the computer software—then scenarios can be applied to the digital twin, and engineers can view how systems will react. By using digital twins, systems can be tested in the worst cases possible and ensure that the system will perform as expected. Artificial intelligence (AI) is becoming very popular within factory automation because of its predictive maintenance capabilities. Using AI within building automation can assist maintenance staff and ensure the systems run all year long with minimal downtime.   Passive Logic's ecosystem of building automation solutions utilize Quantum Engine, which uses AI and machine learning to optimize energy systems, allowing them to be operated more efficiently and with greater accuracy than ever before. The technology utilizes an innovative combination of AI and closed-loop control algorithms to provide a wide range of energy optimization and control capabilities, allowing for the seamless integration of distributed energy resources. The technology enables real-time analysis of energy systems, allowing for dynamic adjustments to be made to optimize energy usage and reduce energy costs. Additionally, Quantum can “learn” from its environment and adapt to changing conditions, ensuring that energy systems always operate at peak efficiency.  Making use of AI and digital twins within building automation can reduce wasted energy and increase the efficiency of buildings, and with many buildings already in existence and many more being constructed every day, spending time and money on reducing waste from these buildings can help reduce our carbon footprint. The ecosystem of products is is expected to be available in the near future, and PassiveLogic is currently working with a number of partners to bring this technology to market. This is an exciting development for the industry, and PassiveLogic is confident that their solutions will help revolutionize how buildings are designed and managed. 