Universal Robots launches new 30 kg payload collaborative robot – UR30 Universal Robots launched its new 30 kg payload collaborative robot (cobot) – the UR30 – at iREX 2023 in Japan. This is the second in the Danish manufacturer’s new series of next-generation cobots. It is reportedly built on the same architecture as the  UR20. Featuring a compact size, the cobot offers extraordinary lift, according to the company. The company explains in a press statement that its superior motion control ensures the perfect placement of large payloads, allowing it to work at higher speeds and lift heavier loads. According to Universal Robots, this makes UR30 ideal for several applications, including machine tending, material handling and high torque screw driving. For machine tending, the high payload reportedly brings new possibilities as it allows the cobot to use multiple grippers at the same time. This means it can remove finished parts and load more material in one single pass. UR30 will also support high torque screw driving as it can handle larger and higher-output torque tools compared to the UR20. A steady mode feature allows the UR30 to deliver straight and consistent screw driving. In addition, the 30 kg payload makes UR30 suitable for material handling and palletizing of heavy products across all industries, with the small footprint enabling it to fit into almost all workspaces. Weighing 63.5 kg, it can also be moved between work cells. “The higher payload and greater flexibility underpin a new era in automation. Industries around the world are embracing more agile manufacturing and modularity in production – part of achieving that modularity and agility is about mobility and this cobot delivers that despite its payload. As industries evolve, the UR30 not only meets but anticipates shifting demands, enabling businesses to adapt and respond to changing needs effectively. As we continue to innovate, the UR30 is another step in UR’s journey in pushing the boundaries of what is possible in the world of automation,” says the company’s president Kim Povlsen. 