Look Out For Factory Automation Solutions At ATX West 2023 Hosted by IMEngineering West in Anaheim, CA on Feb 7-9, the Automation Technology Expo (ATX) West is quickly approaching. Check out some of the innovative factory automation and robotic solutions to be demonstrated on the show floor. With over 1500 exhibitors and five expos on one show floor, IME West is once again bringing together the latest in factory automation, robotics, packaging, plastics, and medtech.    In case you missed it, the Control Automation team is headed to ATX West just this next week. With boots on the ground, our engineering and editorial team look forward to seeing demonstrations of the latest solutions in manufacturing technology and talking to product experts. Below, we’ll take a look at some of the technologies already announced to make an appearance.  Found at Booth #4201, international leader in all things automation, Bosch Rexroth, will be demonstrating their portfolio of factory and mobile robotic solutions. Bosch Rexroth’s robust portfolio of ctrlX Automation solutions will play a central role at their booth, including a demo of Bosch Rexroth’s three-axis ctrlX DRIVE connected to a ctrlX CORE industrial PC controller. CtrlX IO and ctrlX HMI will also be on display and in action. Attendees will also witness Bosch Rexroth’s recently released autonomous mobile robot (AMR), the MP1000R, utilizing Rexroth’s laser localization software, the RoKIT Locator, to emulate the transportation of materials. With the RoKIT Locator, the MP1000R doesn’t need environmental markers to map out its surroundings and only requires a single orientation around the factory floor. Other factory automation solutions will be on display at the booth, including Bosch Rexroth’s Flexible Transport System (FTS), Smart Function Kit for Handling, linear technology eTools portfolio, and the latest NEXO Cordless Nutrunner.    Just a short walk away at Booth #4500, the globally known machining, robotics, and factory automation company, FANUC will showcase their lineup of SCARA robots and CRX collaborative robots, along with some of their popular factory automation solutions. With the recent addition of their ceiling mountable SCARA robot, the SR3iA/U, FANUC will demo “upside down” high-speed inspection. For an equally flashy experience, FANUC’s cleanroom 6-axis robot, the LR Mate 200iD/7LC will work alongside the SR-6iA/C cleanroom SCARA robot to piece together (and then take apart) breakfast sandwiches. Demonstrating machine tending, palletizing, and packaging, FANUC’s lineup of CRX collaborative robots will show their ease-of-use installation, programming, and repositioning. FANUC’s 25 kg payload CRX-25iA cobot will demo the palletizing process using FANUC’s 3DV/200 iRVision sensor while connected to a mobile cart, lifting boxes up to 7 ft high. Factory automation solutions from FANUC will also be demoed, including industrial PCs, the Digital Servo Adapter-Model B motion control device, and the MT-Link.   Several rows down, at Booth #4432, worldwide award-winning robotic solutions company, Epson Robots is exhibiting its four and six-axis product lineup. The latest line of SCARA robots from Epson, the GX-Series, claims power, precision, and speedy cycle times, offering several models in the 4 kg payload GX4 robots lineup and the 8 kg payload GX8 lineup to fit a wide range of manufacturing needs. The SCARA series of robots will demonstrate their capabilities with Epson’s GYROPLUS Technology. Epson’s robust RC+ Express robot teaching software designed for ease of use and the IntelliFlex Parts Feeding System that utilizes software and machine vision with Epson’s 6-axis or SCARA robots for part feeding will also be up and running. Attendees can also expect to see examples of Epson’s series of 6-axis robots.  ATX West is being held Feb 7-9 at the Anaheim Convention Center in California. If you are attending as a business and would like to meet with us and discuss your company’s latest control technologies, please reach out to us at [email protected] and we’d love to arrange a meeting. 