Control.com is Headed to ATX West 2023 - Meet Us There The Automation Technology Expo (ATX) West, hosted by IMEngineering West, is happening in Anaheim, CA, on Feb 7-9. Control.com is excited to attend and share news about products, stories, and innovations from the front lines! 300,000 square feet of show floor space, loaded with the most cutting-edge tech from the fields of automation, medical, plastics, and packaging can all be expected at from IME West 2023. This technology trade show features five different events combined under one roof to reveal the most recent trends across a variety of manufacturing fields. Control.com is especially excited to feature the demonstration showcases of ATX West, the Automation Tech Expo portion of the event. If you plan to attend ATX, let us know—it would be great to meet you at the show!    Most of the leading OEM brands will be on hand to learn about your challenges among the industries that deal with industrial automation. Here is just a short sample of who you can meet at the show:  This trade show is designed for nearly anyone in the field of industrial manufacturing, not just automation. Certainly, engineers will feel right at home, getting up close and personal with equipment that could someday be in your own control cabinets and factory floors. Managers and executives looking to the future to identify technology trends and forecasts are sure to see many exciting demonstrations that reveal new ways to increase productivity and efficiency while minimizing losses. Teachers and students will learn insights about the application of technology outside of the classroom, developing new methods of incorporating real-world case studies and products into educational programs from high school to university level.    ATX West isn’t the only show, although these days, automation is the name of the game for a great many industries. Examples of high-tech automation can be found mixed throughout each of the other events sharing the venue.  Medical devices and pharmaceutical innovations will be showcased at this section of the show floor. This kind of technology is used in applications from home and personal devices to hospitals and manufacturing facilities requiring strict attention to the medical needs of patients around the world.  The packaging industry relies highly on motors, motion, and automation to distribute and process all kinds of goods. You can expect to see demonstrations of every innovation from mobile logistical robotics to modern packaging material concepts and the printing/labeling devices to ensure a steady supply chain.    Nearly every product in our lives is constructed from or designed on equipment that uses plastics and polymers. This event showcases the latest materials and manufacturing processes, including injection molding and rapid additive prototyping. Even engineers in logistics, automation, and medical industries rely heavily on plastic innovation.  Design and manufacturing is a process that evolves from initial conceptualization through prototyping all the way to final manufacturing, with a great deal of effort spent on rapid 3D prototyping these days. Along the way, software is involved in every step, including CAD, PLM, and even testing applications.  