NEW Control Automation PLC Video - Discrete PLC Outputs We are excited to release the next tutorial video from our own Control Automation studio. Join us on Thursday, January 5th at 11am ET/8am PT to kick off the new year with a live Q&A from the video author and engineer.  As the world of automation advances, new ways of delivering information are necessary. We already publish technical articles, news, eBooks, and plenty more content about all sorts of topics, but we are excited to be creating more videos to provide a deeper look into the heart of control system technology.    In our previous videos, we provided an introduction to PLC technology and the various hardware modules and options that are common across the many makes and models. Following the introduction, we explain the steps for connecting discrete input devices like sensors and buttons. In this next video in the series, we examine the discrete outputs that are driven by PLCs: relays, contactors, lights, solenoids, and more! To activate output devices, some basic ladder logic programming must also be explained. Check out the webpage for the YouTube premier event and mark your calendars for Thursday the 5th of January at 11am ET / 8am PT to watch live and kick off your new year with some PLC wiring and programming! You don’t need to sign up or log in to watch this free content, but only YouTube members can interact with our live question and answer chat. Besides just the Q&A, signing up for the Control.com newsletter on our site will give you access to all the latest info about upcoming videos and written content as we continue this PLC series and explore all sorts of new, innovative ideas and equipment from our many partners.  What does it mean to watch a premier launch of a YouTube video? You can watch the very first unveiling of the video, and we will be there to answer questions in the live chat. You can provide your feedback, suggestions, and input for future videos. Even after the LIVE event is done, you can always see the video and share it on your own social media channels and encourage your friends to check it out. Education is something we strongly believe in here at Control.com and EETech. If we wish to share content with the world, it is best to adopt the mindset of a teacher. We are constantly learning new skills, and we love sharing those skills with the world. That’s why our motto here at EETech is Helping Engineers Engineer the Future!     