Control.com Celebrates 2022 and Looks Toward the New Year! Join us as we celebrate the end of 2022 and look toward the new year! Check out our most popular articles of the past year, what you may have missed, and what you can expect to see in 2023. 2022 is almost over and a lot has happened over the past year here at Control.com. As we move into the new year, we reflect on the exciting happenings of 2022 and what you can expect to see in 2023.   Take a look at some of our highest viewed pages over the past year.  Understanding Differences Between Power and Ground Side Switching An Overview of Sequential Function Chart (SFC) PLC Programming Grounding for Control Transformers  Arduino’s First-ever micro PLC is On its Way OnLogic Announces Edge Compute Device Powered by Raspberry Pi and Ignition Edge What Control Technologies Does the James Webb Space Telescope Use?  Top Technical Article on our sister site, AllAboutCircuits.com: Top Technical Article on our sister site, EEPower.com:   Last June, we hosted Control Automation Day, a one-day, free virtual conference and trade show designed for control engineers. Our 2022 show focused on exciting industry education about all things PLCs—with keynote speakers from Rockwell Automation and Arduino. In case you missed it, or would like to revisit, our sessions can still be watched on demand. We are excited to once again host Control Automation Day. Stay tuned to hear who, what, and when!  Control.com had the opportunity to attended Automate in Detroit and Automation Fair in Chicago this past year, getting hands on with well-known and upcoming technologies. In 2023, we will be attending ATX West in Anaheim and others!  If you haven’t yet had a chance, check out our new tools. We now have everything from a Temperature Unit Conversion Calculator to Pressure Unit Conversion Calculators.  We are in the process of updating our textbook and encourage you to check out a few of our updated chapters: This is a process we will continue into 2023.  We’ve put together some pretty neat eBooks, and if you haven’t checked them out already, we highly recommend them! Watch out for a 3-phase Motor Wiring one coming out soon.   Our very own Director of Engineering, David Peterson, and team at EETech have put a lot of work into developing video content. Check us out on YouTube and look out for more video content to come in the new year!  Shoutout to all of our readers for being a part of our thriving Control Automation community. Please, we are always happy to hear your feedback and questions. We can be reached at [email protected].    Facebook LinkedIn Twitter 