“Pre-compensated and Proportional”: The Next-gen of Load Sensing Valves Parker Hannifin has recently designed and released the new VA series valve control system for use in the mobile equipment industry. The new series is capable of increased versatility and efficiency over their older valve systems. Directional control valves play a vital role in different industries and applications by providing valve control for anything from simple single valve switching to complex valve control for entire mobile equipment operation. Pneumatic and hydraulic systems are used for a number of processes in industry and can be used to control processes difficult to integrate with electronic-based control systems. Used to change gasses or hydraulic fluids between different locations within hydraulic or pneumatic systems, directional control valves are often one of the most important components in valve controlled systems. The new directional control valve series from Parker Hannifin looks to improve control valve technology in the mobile machinery sector in particular.   Parker Hannifin has taken the effort to improve valve technology for mobile machinery in their latest VA series of directional control valves. The valves have been designed with the highly demanding task of mobile machinery control. The valves are capable of a maximum flow rate of 450 l/min. Parker has created the VA series valve to ensure the continued market leading performance of their other products. The VA series valves are designed to offer increased flexibility, modularity, robustness, and maneuverability for whatever application they are used in. With an eye to the future, Parker has taken efforts to make the valves adaptable to different industries, including: Mining Forestry Material Handling Construction The valve controls can be used in mobile equipment applications ranging from dump trucks, loaders, and forestry harvesters to excavators, fork lift trucks, and drill rigs, including others.    In order to increase efficiency, Parker has managed to improve their older, existing, high-end L90LS and K220LS valves. The L90LS and K220LS valves are known to be flexible and robust with an eye to superior air and hydraulic controllability. In order to improve efficiency, the VA series valves have been built by adding and improving on the L90LS and K220LS valves with additional modularity. Efficiency has been improved in other ways as well, with optimized valve channels that help reduce the amount of the flow loss created when liquid or gas flows through the valves. In addition to improved efficiency from a better efficiency perspective, the VA series valves have been made in a more modular way. Increased modularity leads to a reduction in costs associated with difficult mounting options. Increased mounting variability is useful in situations where space is at a premium and can help to reduce the amount of valuable real estate taken by valve systems on expensive mobile equipment.  Industry 4.0 is becoming more and more important to manufacturing, raw material handling, and process industries. Parker has anticipated a shift of mobile equipment to industry 4.0 standards by incorporating useful onboard electronics into the valves. They will be able to link with the IoT to perform diagnostic checks and other monitoring features. In addition, the smart valve technology features warm up possibilities for increased efficiency, performance enhancing capabilities, and proportional counter pressure with active refill. 