Control Automation PLC Video Series - Discrete PLC Inputs We are excited to release the next tutorial video from our own Control Automation engineering staff. Join us for the YouTube release on Wednesday, November 9th with a live Q&A from the video author and engineer.  As the world of automation advances, new ways of delivering information are necessary. We already publish technical articles, news, eBooks, and plenty more content about all sorts of topics, but we are excited to be creating more videos to provide a more personal look into the heart of control system technology.    In the first of our videos, we provided an introduction to PLC technology and the various hardware modules and options that are common across the many makes and models. In this next video in the series, we take a look at the discrete sensors, switches, and buttons that are connected to a PLC input module. These inputs collect information about the process environment in order to generate output actions and evaluate the current status of the process. Without this important feedback, we have no idea if our system is working or failed, so it’s a very important first step in the closed-loop control system process. Check out the webpage for the YouTube premier event and mark your calendars for Wednesday, November 9th at 11am ET / 8 am PT to watch live! You don’t need to sign up or log in to watch this free content, but only YouTube members can interact with our live question and answer chat. Besides just the Q&A, signing up for the Control.com newsletter on our site will give you access to all the latest info about upcoming videos and written content as we continue this PLC series and explore all sorts of new, innovative ideas and equipment from our many partners.  What does it mean to watch a premier launch of a YouTube video? You can watch the very first unveiling of the video, and we will be there to answer questions in the live chat. You can provide your feedback, suggestions, and input for future videos. Even after the LIVE event is done, you can always see the video and share it on your own social media channels and encourage your friends to check it out. Education is something we believe in strongly here at Control.com and EETech. If we wish to share content with the world, it is best to adopt the mindset of a teacher. We are constantly learning new skills, and we love sharing those skills with the world. That’s why our motto here at EETech is Helping Engineers Engineer the Future!     