An “Intuitive” Tightening Solution? Bosch Rexroth’s Digital Torque Wrench The new OPEXplus digital torque wrench from Bosch Rexroth uses a combination of digital communication features and robust physical components to tackle a variety of industrial applications. Bosch Rexroth, a global leader in automation and hydraulics, has announced the release of the OPEXplus digital torque wrench to its existing tightening solutions product line. Outfitted with an economical design, an optical aiming device, and an LED display ring, the torque wrench is a high-accuracy and fatigue-free tool, ready to be used in various industrial environments.  Many facilities will be familiar with joining and tightening technologies. Large, expensive, and complicated machinery requires precise and accurate fasteners to hold them in place. Failure of fasteners can lead to catastrophic vibrations and possibly highly dangerous working environments. Bosch Rexroth has a portfolio of products used directly on tightening and joining components. Among their product line are a series of impresses, spindles, control systems, and cordless nutrunners, all boasting maximum precision, reliability, and security.    Depending on the industrial setting, there could be significant differences in the required amount of automated tightening solutions. Bosch Rexroth provides four levels of tightening and joining options to match any industrial application, including handheld tightening tools, hand-guided tightening tools, semi-automatic tightening stations, and fully automatic tightening stations.    Unlike standard wrenches that are susceptible to over and under-tightening, a digital wrench relies on a digital torque reading to ensure a fastener is always tightened to the rated and engineered tightness. In addition to having digital qualities, the OPEXplus is engineered with an embedded WiFi module that can upload data to any existing installed IT system. The installed software offers hotspot capability which can quickly relay parameters to the customer's network or connective interface. When paired with an optical device used for reading QR and barcodes, the wrench can easily relay large amounts of information back to a centralized source. Capable of measuring torques from 3 to 800 Nm and the angle of rotation, the OPEXplus wrench is equipped with various features that set it apart from similar products on the market. For power, the wrench utilizes a standard 21700 lithium-ion rechargeable battery cell which is easily sourced and standardized around the globe. As for housing, the wrench is equipped with a robust shell manufactured out of titanium-aluminum and fitted with an ergonomic non-slip grip cover. User feedback is a valuable benefit of the OPEXplus torque wrench. Engineered with an LED display ring near the handle, the wrench provides live feedback during manufacturing. The color of the LED ring indicates the angle and torque of the wrench, giving the user the proper knowledge to effectively control the wrench. An optional vibration module provides touch verification with the fastener and the wrench.  The new OPEXplus fills a niche within the Bosch Rexroth tightening product line. Using a combination of digital communication features and robust physical components, Bosch Rexroth plans to continue tackling a variety of industrial applications with their evolving tightening technologies.  