Edge-to-Cloud Industrial Data Hub from Rockwell Automation and Cognite Rockwell and Cognite have partnered to develop a more efficient method for data scaling and plant efficiency using the cloud. They also have created a new way for customers to work more efficiently via cloud–based software. Rockwell Automation and Cognite recently announced a strategic partnership designed to create an edge-to-cloud industrial data hub. The hub is supposed to help manufacturers unlock the power of unified data in the manufacturing industry. The product will create a place for engineering, operational, visual, and enterprise to be used in harmony for a more complete data management system. The partnership looks to combine Rockwell’s FactoryTalk software with Cognite’s Industrial DataOps platform, Cognite Data Fusion.  The combination of the two products aims to create a system for much easier data scaling by using Rockwell’s edge connectivity to plant processes, operations procedures, and custom analytics built specifically for industry, with Cognite Industrial DataOps platform. The product will create an avenue for raw data to be transformed into useful insight into plant processes that can be connected across all company assets. With the proper use of raw data and cloud technology, the companies hope to improve operations by making them safer and more efficient, with an increase in workflow. “Manufacturers of all sizes struggle with getting access to, and value from, their data. A unifying information hub can provide a single source of truth for all manufacturing data without a major investment in proprietary and costly platforms,” says Rockwell’s Brian Shepherd, senior vice president of Software & Control. He further explains how larger companies have a more difficult time compiling data from far-reaching places to create meaningful analytics. The software promises to help with this problem affordably.    Besides a partnership with Cognite, Rockwell has also launched the new FactoryTalk Design Hub. The software was created to establish a more productive way for customers to work on automation design. It uses the cloud and cloud computing to transform their design capabilities more effectively. The software helps to promote faster design capabilities through better connectivity among company team members. Allowing cloud-based software to be accessible regardless of a team's location, skill set, or size, Rockwell hopes the result will be increased design capabilities and less time for products to reach the market. The software also is intended to bring a reduction in overall manufacturing costs with an increase in efficiency for design time and implementation.    The FactoryTalk Design Hub contains five unique softwares: Each piece promotes a more efficient design process for manufacturers, helping to connect workers effectively. With their latest FactoryTalk software all in one hub and their latest partnership with Cognite, Rockwell aims to bring greater efficiency and affordability to its customers. 