COSEL’s New DIN-Rail AC/DC Power Supplies COSEL welcomes its new power supply lineup, the WDA series, for industrial applications. The AC/DC DIN-rail power supplies feature improved efficiency to help manufacturers reduce costs. Power supplies play a key role in a number of different industrial automation systems. They are used to convert higher-voltage AC into lower-voltage DC or to change DC voltages. Most control cabinets have some sort of power supply available to run different components necessary in the operation of an automated cell. The most common components that need a DC power supply are PLCs, I/O components, and HMIs.   COSEL Co, one of the world's leading manufacturers of power supplies, DC-DC converters, and EMI filters has announced a new line of DIN-rail power supplies. The company has designed three different power supplies capable of providing different wattages based on customers' needs. COSEL has focused on providing customers with high-quality, reliable products all over the world since their introduction to the marketplace in Japan in 1969.  COSEL's WDA series of power supplies can be bought with three different power levels to meet customers needs: 30 W, 60 W, or 90 W. In order to fit a broader range of cabinets and applications, the power supplies are designed to handle an input voltage range of 85 V - 264 V. The three models are called the WDA30F, WDA60F and WDA90F, with the number representing max wattage available.    The power supplies are capable of making a maximum of 90 W at a maximum efficiency rate of 90%. The high efficiency rate is expected to help reduce energy costs for customers over the lifespan of the product. They are compatible with DIN EN60715TH 35 standard (35×7.5 mm or 35×15 mm), a standard, top-hat shaped DIN rail. Each power supply can be linked to the railing via an attachment. The power supplies come standard with overvoltage and overcurrent protection that has automatic recovery built in. A built-in potentiometer allows customers to accurately dial in the output voltage for whatever the power supply is powering. A DC OK LED on each power supply helps customers to confirm that output voltage is available. The WDA30F can be used to produce one of four different output voltages consisting of 5 V, 12 V, 24 V and 48 V.  The WDA30F has an optimum efficiency of 88% and operates at a maximum power level of 30 W. WDA60F and WDA90F feature only three different possible output voltages, consisting of 12 V, 24 V and 48 V. The WDA60F is capable of 60 W maximum power supply and the WDA90 is capable of producing 90 W maximum power supply. They both reach a slightly higher efficiency threshold than the WDA 30, with a maximum 90% efficiency possible.  COSEL designed the WDA power supplies with the industrial environment in mind and to operate in an ambient temperature range of -20 to +70 degrees centigrade. This rating needs to be checked with specific manufacturer documentation, however, and certain applications may downgrade the temperature range. The devices were also built with an eye to safety and meet different safety standards including: UL62368-1, EN62368-1, and C-UL (equivalent to CAN/CSA-C22.2 No.62368-1). The CE mark and UKCA can be seen on the supplies and comply with the RoHS and Low Voltage directives.  DC power supplies are a common piece of equipment found in different industrial applications, often used to supply I/O, PLCs, and HMIs with DC power. They can be used to change AC power to DC power or change DC to DC power levels. COSEL's WDA power supply lineup are designed with value and performance in mind, made for use in process control, measurement and analysis equipment, display equipment, machine tools, industrial robotics, and others. 