SensoPart FT 55-RLAM Compact Photoelectric Sensor Series Update SensoPart has updated its current F 55 compact class to include the FT 55-RLAM-320 model, offering new extended operating ranges for a diverse set of industrial applications. SensoPart is an industry-leading designer and producer of photoelectric sensors and image processing devices. Unreserved regarding research and development, SensoPart works closely with research institutes and universities to maintain a technological advantage in the marketplace. Aiming to remain one step ahead of industry requirements, SensoPart has updated its current F 55 compact class to include the FT-55 RLAM-320 model, offering extended operating ranges.    SensoPart’s F 55 compact class sets the standard for compact photoelectric sensors. The series applies to many standard industrial applications, including pick-and-place manufacturing, measuring coil diameters, and part detection in the automotive industry. Housed in a robust exterior, SensoPart's F 55 sensors focus on a simple-to-use design, resulting in reliable and precise measurements while remaining easy to implement. Typical of the F 55 class is a high-intensity light with background suppression, affording the device large scanning distances up to 1200 mm and producing a light visible even during daylight hours. Equipped with a class one laser to provide optimum safety, the device class can register a variety of shaded backgrounds. A class two laser is also available for more complicated matt and shiny surfaces.    Within the F 55 compact class is the FT 55-RLAM series. The FT 55-RLAM series is designed for high-performance precision and classified by SensoPart as “The allrounder: Smart Laser Distance Sensor.” The distance sensors include an analog output, two switching outputs, an IO-Link, and an optional RS485 interface. Unusual for this type of sensor, a large LCD screen is incorporated to aid implementation and operation. Originally a set of two devices, the FT 55-RLAM-480 and the FT 55-RLAM-800, made up the FT 55-RLAM Series, but SensoPart has recently updated with set with the FT 55-RLAM-320, seen in the image below.    The new FT 55-RLAM-320 offers a more specialized option for shorter-distance applications. The device increases the lower operational range of the entire group from 120 mm to 80 mm, resulting in the total functional capacity of the series of 80 mm to 1000 mm. In addition to increasing operational range, the FT 55-RLAM-320 dramatically decreases the repeatability error of the devices from ≤ 20 μm to ≤ 6 μm. The FT 55-RLAM-320 is a welcomed addition to the FT 55-RLAM family and broadens the application areas for the device. Automatic positioning, monitoring coil diameter, and measuring web tensions are but a few industrial applications. When paired with a duplicate sensor, width and thickness measurements can be monitored using the differential measurement function, further increasing the application range.  The FT 55-RLAM-320 comes preinstalled with various software functions. An overview of these functions is highlighted here: Minimum/Maximum/Difference-Hold: Relays the minimum, maximum, or difference in measured values over a set period. Auto Zero or Auto Center: Automatically reset the characteristic curve to reference a new object measurement. Good Target: Continuously check the plausibility of fluctuating surface colors and structures. Smart Functions: A collection of additional helpful features, such as Delay, Pulse, Counter, or Frequency Monitoring.  The FT 55-RLAM family and newly launched FT 55-RLAM-320 are rugged, all-around, high-performance, distance measuring sensors. When paired with an easy-to-use interface and IO-Link, the FT 55-RLAM-320 is ready to meet the future demands of Industry 4.0. 