Bosch Rexroth’s ACTIVE Cockpit Upgrade for Friendlier Navigation Bosch Rexroth’s user-feedback driven redesign of their ACTIVE Cockpit software increases productivity and reduces the time required for process optimization for friendlier use in manufacturing. Bosch Rexroth has announced version 5.0 of their basic ACTIVE Cockpit software package. The newest edition features a new navigation scheme, which aims to save time during use and process optimization, as well as a number of other upgrades. The new upgrades include 81% more space for widgets, a “favorites” category, a convenient search feature, and so on. All of these upgrades were implemented based on customer feedback.   The ACTIVE Cockpit software, “the interactive communication tool for manufacturing,” is designed to optimize technical and organizational improvements while integrating information technology (IT) on the production shop floor. It does so by allowing users to measure Key Performance Indicators (KPIs), track changes, integrate many existing applications, and conveniently see processes in real-time. The software is designed to be used on large touch screens found in control rooms of virtually every industrial and manufacturing sector. The user can customize their interface to display the KPIs of interest, as well as have all relevant functions available on their screen.    Version 5.0 has made some major improvements based on user feedback. The aspect ratio of the dashboard interface has changed to 16:9 to match many existing monitors and screens and is highly customizable. This allows more room for widgets for displaying different KPIs. Adding to this open layout, widgets can be displayed in a semi-transparent form, meaning certain items can be layered and information from two different sources displayed in the same space. This is particularly useful for troubleshooting activities where two process variables may need to be monitored at the same time to see if there is a correlation between the values, even if they are not directly related to each other. A search feature and context oriented toolbars improve the speed and efficiency of setting up widgets and finding modules and data sources. App-to-app communication is also streamlined, meaning some things may not need to be on the user dashboard at all.    The ACTIVE Cockpit Basic software 5.0 includes the Dashboard, Administrator UI, Views, Meetings, and Notes modules, as well as the Desklink function for connecting to devices on the shop floor. There is also the ability to add optional modules, such as the Lean Indicator, App Diagram, Deviation Manager, and others. Depending on the specific industrial environment and module packages purchased, these modules can show quality and security faults, map out control trees through available apps, visualize KPIs, track excursions, and many other functions. Even with all of these modules, their installation, integration and use requires no programming. Not sure if ACTIVE Cockpit is a good fit? Bosch Rexroth offers a three month trial to take it for a test drive.  Rexroth is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Bosch. Both have been industry leaders in the automation world, servicing virtually all industries across six continents and over 80 countries. Bosch Rexroth's catalog offers hydraulic, electric drive, linear motionm and many other control system components, including software, such as ACTIVE Cockpit. 