Siemens Brings the Industrial Metaverse Another Step Closer Siemens acquires Senseye and expands its partnership with NVIDIA to establish an industrial metaverse where digital twin technology takes center stage, shifting the metaverse hype into a manufacturing reality. Siemens, the multinational manufacturing company, strengthens their partnership with NVIDIA, the multinational software company, to bring digital twinning to the forefront. By combining their digital business platform with NVIDIA’s 3D-design and collaboration platform, and by acquiring Senseye’s AI-powered predictive maintenance solutions, Siemens moves manufacturing one step closer to the industrial metaverse.   Siemens recently announced the expansion of its existing partnership with NVIDIA. The duo plans to combine the open digital business platform, Siemens Xcelerator, with NVIDIA’s 3D-design and collaboration platform, NVIDIA Omniverse, to enable an industrial metaverse. By combining their expertise, Siemens and NVIDIA will be able to offer the manufacturing community an unparalleled digital twinning experience. The digital twin is a virtual representation of the physical product and its production line. It is a simulation that can be used to predict and optimize the manufacturing process. If there are any changes in the performance of the production line, these can be detected early and fixed before they become a problem. The digital twin is created by collecting data from sensors in the physical system, then using this data to create a digital model that mimics the machine’s behavior.    Siemens Xcelerator is an open digital business platform that combines its portfolio of software, IoT-enabled hardware, digital services, a growing ecosystem of certified partners, and an evolving marketplace. The marketplace allows customers, developers, and partners to undertake business transactions, explore solutions and services, collaborate, learn, and more. The Xcelerator platform is a gateway to digital transformation. In terms of collaboration, the Siemens Teamcenter PLM system connects people and processes to functional silos. Teams can design, test, and manage complex software systems with the Polarion unified application lifecycle management solution. Developers can build, deploy, and operate enterprise-grade software applications with the Mendix low-code application development platform. The term low code means that little or no code is required to create software applications and processes. This can speed application deployment. Customers can also access the IIoT PaaS solution, Mindsphere. The platform allows businesses to connect their machines and infrastructure to the digital world. Data can be retrieved from assets to generate transformational insights.  Last month, Siemens also announced its acquisition of Senseye. Senseye specializes in AI-powered predictive maintenance and asset intelligence solutions for manufacturing and industrial companies. With Senseye’s solutions, Siemens provides a digitized health plan so that customers can extend the life of their machines via monitor and maintenance. This reduces material waste and costs, which in turn serves to strengthen corporate sustainability goals.  The move towards bringing the physical into the digital opens up industries to a wide range of manufacturing possibilities, whether it is safety, maintenance, or efficiency. With Siemens expanded portfolio and partnership, manufacturing is brought another step closer to a digital future. 