Mitsubishi Electric to Establish New Factories in Japan and India Mitsubishi Electric is growing its operations, with plans to expand in Japan and India. The new factories are expected to meet growing market demands and implement digital solutions with a focus on sustainability. Mitsubishi Electric has taken steps to expand its operations in the growing digital and electronic sectors of Japan and India. The aim is to establish a manufacturing system in both countries for the growing local markets. Demand for factory automation products is expected to have medium to long term growth, especially in the digital sectors for both Indian and Japanese markets. Mitsubishi has invested 13 billion yen (approx. 110 million USD) into their Japanese factory and 2.2 billion Indian rupees (approx. 27 million USD) into their Indian factory.   In March of 2022, Mitsubishi announced that it had purchased 42,000 square meters of land in Owariasahi City, Aichi Prefecture, Japan. The land will be used to create a manufacturing plant to be completed by 2025 for factory automation components. The site of the new factory is close to Nagoya, home to Mitsubishi Electric’s main factory automation plant. The plant will be a three-level building of 33,600 square meters, with earthquake resistance built in. The factory is going to utilize new technologies for more efficient operation, including 5G communication and automatic guided vehicles (AGVs). The use of 5G enables workers and the AGVs to interact in a more efficient way. Additionally, their use of AI hopes to enable a more efficient and safe production environment by utilizing high speed real time data acquisition and analysis. Mitsubishi also plans to implement its digital manufacturing solution “e-F@ctory.” With  “e-F@ctory,” Mitsubishi intends to improve both the supply chain management and the engineering chain management sectors of the factory. The improvement looks to create more efficiency in the production process by improving design, manufacturing, and maintenance. With the use of digital twins and AGVs, Mitsubishi expects to improve the production process. Their use should lead to an increase in efficiency by improving logistics and reducing shipping times. Mitsubishi seeks to increase flexibility for their manufacturing processes in order to fluctuate with changing demands in the marketplace.    Located near Pune, Maharashtra, Mitsubishi’s new plant in India will start operations in December of 2023. The factory is set to be a 15,400 square-meter factory consisting of two floors and built on 40,000 square meters of land. The factory is part of the Make in India initiative promoted by the Indian government to help India grow into a “global design and manufacturing hub.” India has an expected growth rate of over 8% in industries like food and beverage, textiles, data centers, and automobiles—a number that is expected to grow. The plant will be used to manufacture inverters and other factory automation, with the purpose of filling India’s growing local needs. Mitsubishi has worked to make the factory environmentally friendly by design. It will be carbon neutral through the use of highly efficient air conditioning systems and LED lighting equipment. In addition, the factory will be compliant with sustainable development goals by incorporating a waste water filtration system located underground.  Mitsubishi Electric has over 145,000 employees worldwide, with the main headquarters in Chiyoda City, Japan. They produce a wide range of electrical components for many different industries worldwide. Their vision is to create a sustainable future and society through continuous technological innovation and ceaseless creativity. 