Bosch Rexroth Releases its New Plug-and-Produce Smart Function Kit for Dispensing Bosch Rexroth's new universal Smart Function Kit for Dispensing helps customers execute dispensing tasks faster than previously possible with their complete and deployment-ready linear robots. As a leading expert in the field of drive and control technologies, Bosch Rexroth AG continues to push for digital transformation to enhance its product offerings and solutions. Bosch Rexroth recently announced the addition of its new Smart Function Kit for dispensing tasks to its existing Smart MechatroniX solution platform. The new kit is designed to allow dispensing tasks such as bonding, casting, filling, and sealing to be executed with greater speed and ease than previously possible. The kit can be used by manufacturers, system integrators, and mechanical engineers in packaging, automotive industries, battery manufacturing, and semiconductor manufacturing industries.  The Smart Function Kit combines a browser-based, intuitive web HMI, a servo drive with an integrated control system, mechanics, and motor technology to generate a complete and deployment-ready linear robot. The kit features a servo drive of the latest generation, the crtrlX DRIVE, with integrated ctrlX CORE control. Customers can create a customized solution with the possibility of either a cartesian single or multi-axis modular system. Linear axes include CKK & CKR compact modules, MKR linear modules, and connection elements. Additionally, the Smart Function Kit includes an MS2N series servo motor with an absolute encoder and integrated motor brake.  The software comes pre-installed to reduce commissioning time by up to 80%. Users can follow a wizard step by step throughout the process. According to Bosch Rexroth, no programming knowledge is needed and programs can be created in seconds. If desired, customers can integrate their solution into higher-level control and IT infrastructure and configure processes using drag and drop. The plug-and-produce aspect of the Smart Function Kit means that the servo drive and dispensing head, as well as the axis referencing, are conducted automatically. Through a recent partnership, ViscoTec’s dispensing heads come integrated with the operating software, ctrlX AUTOMATION, an open automation platform that runs on the ctrlX Core, bringing together control, motion, and IoT. It provides a standardized control environment for the Smart Function Kits. With the ctrlX AUTOMATION platform, graphic programming can be used to map complex line movements.  The kit is Industry 4.0-ready through open Open Platform Communication - United Architecture (OPC UA) integration. This is an open protocol for the IoT. It is a standard that allows devices to communicate with each other, regardless of manufacturer. The OPC UA specification defines the data format and communication channel between IoT devices. It provides a common language for all types of devices to communicate with one another, and it allows them to be controlled remotely. The OPC UA specification is designed to be independent of any particular type of device or operating system so that it can be used in any environment where IoT technology exists. 