Recap: Control Automation Day 2022 Control Automation Day 2022 is now in the rear-view mirror; thanks to our presenters and attendees for making the inaugural event a huge success!   Control Automation Day 2022 - On Demand! Congratulations to the winners of our grand prize giveaways, Jeremy P and Keith A. We hope these Arduino Machine Control and Rockwell Micro820 controllers will be used in some exciting projects, and we’d love to learn about these projects in the upcoming weeks.  Now that the event is concluded, you can watch all of the presentations and check out all of the content in the vendor booths. Visit the registration page to review the lineup of exciting, engaging presentations from our hosts and guests. And, be sure to share them with your friends and colleagues who might not have been able to join the live sessions. Control Automation Day 2022 - On Demand!  This year, we were proud to present an exciting lineup of keynote and live sessions from industry experts hosted by our EETech engineering team!  Join Rockwell Automation’s Business Director for Automation Control, Dan DeYoung, as we explore the trends in PLC technology that give us a glimpse into what the future may hold for hardware, software, and system architecture. Rockwell Automation Keynote Session On Demand   As data collection and processing becomes a major priority, the technology to accomplish these tasks and the infrastructure required to implement such technology are rapidly evolving. Join Arduino’s co-founder, Massimo Banzi, to learn why these industry trends are important. Arduino Pro Keynote Session On Demand  Level Up! How Git-based Version Control Vastly Improves PLC Programming Copia delivers modern developer tools for industrial automation. Copia Vice President of Marketing Darren Henry discusses git-based source control solutions for PLCs, streamlining workflows for faster delivery and maximized uptime. Copia Automation’s Session On Demand  PLCs of the Past, Present, and Future: Exploring the Evolution of Programmable Controllers To effectively prepare for a changing workforce, the current technologies in PLCs must be understood. The Automation School’s Instructor, Shawn Tierney, discusses the evolution of past to future PLC technologies and what features to expect across modern platforms. Register for The Automation School’s Session On Demand  The Making of a PLC Expert: Hard Skills and Soft Skills Hosted by our own Control Automation engineering staff with a background in education, training, and PLCs. Learn about some of the top hard and soft skills that can launch your career, no matter whether you are a learner, a teacher, an engineer, or a company attempting to foster an attitude of continuous improvement within your team. We'll discuss some of those top skills as well as methods of putting them into practice daily. Register for Control Automation’s Session On Demand  We have enjoyed sharing this event with you as we help Engineers to Engineer the Future! Stay tuned for more educational events like this in the coming months. 