A How-to Guide to Control Automation Day 2022 Welcome to Control Automation Day 2022—Control.com’s digital-only event for engineers! Here is your guide to navigating the keynote addresses, live educational sessions, and exciting giveaways from your favorite manufacturers! We're proud to launch our 2022 event - all about Programmable Logic Control (PLC) systems - bright and early tomorrow morning. Who: Control system engineers, technicians, students, instructors, and enthusiasts What: Industry-leading keynote addresses, live sessions, a digital expo of products and features, and exciting news and educational automation content! Where: Right here on Control Automation When: Tuesday, June 21st, 2022, plus the entire week of exciting PLC-related content to check out Why: Updates on technology from your most trusted brands, access to exclusive educational content, advice from experts across the industry, and membership to a network of like-minded control engineers and technicians. Each company's booth is packed to the brim with information and discovery about new products to energize your processes and simplify your workflow. You can navigate to an individual exhibitor's page by clicking on the company logo found on the Control Automation Day landing page.  If you're ready to start signing up for any of the Control Automation Day events now, visit the registration page: Register for Control Automation Day 2022  If you're already a community member on Control.com, you can use the same login credentials to register. If not, we encourage you to sign up and participate in all the additional content and forum benefits the other members already receive!  We're proud to present this lineup of keynote and live sessions from industry experts hosted by our EETech engineering team! Rockwell Automation – 10 am ET/7 am PT  Join Rockwell Automation’s Business Director for Automation Control, Dan DeYoung, as we explore the trends in PLC technology that give us a glimpse into what the future may hold for hardware, software, and system architecture.  Arduino Pro – 12 pm ET/9 am PT  As data collection and processing becomes a major priority, the technology to accomplish these tasks and the infrastructure required to implement such technology are rapidly evolving. Join Arduino’s co-founder, Massimo Banzi, to learn why these industry trends are important.  Check out the full schedule of Live Sessions on the homepage. Check the starting times of each event, listed in ET and PT. Level Up! How Git-based Version Control Vastly Improves PLC Programming Copia delivers modern developer tools for industrial automation. Copia Vice President of Marketing Darren Henry discusses git-based source control solutions for PLCs, streamlining workflows for faster delivery and maximized uptime. Register for Copia Automation’s Live Session  PLCs of the Past, Present, and Future: Exploring the Evolution of Programmable Controllers To effectively prepare for a changing workforce, the current technologies in PLCs must be understood. The Automation School’s Instructor, Shawn Tierney, discusses the evolution of past to future PLC technologies and what features to expect across modern platforms. Register for The Automation School’s Live Session  The Making of a PLC Expert: Hard Skills and Soft Skills Hosted by our own Control Automation engineering staff with a background in education, training, and PLCs. Learn about some of the top hard and soft skills that can launch your career, no matter whether you are a learner, a teacher, an engineer, or a company attempting to foster an attitude of continuous improvement within your team. We'll discuss some of those top skills as well as methods of putting them into practice daily. Register for Control Automation’s Live Session  You'll also receive emails containing event information from the BigMarker Live Session platform to remind you of upcoming registered sessions and grant access to on-demand content after the fact. Make sure to have your phone handy with the calendar reminder or alarm so you don’t miss the session – and listen along even if you’re hard at work. By registering, you're automatically entered to win one of the two grand prize giveaways! A Micro820 series PLC from Rockwell Automation, using the free Connected Components Workbench programming software.  An Arduino Machine Control Edition, capable of handling basic I/O operations or advanced IIoT projects.  We're excited to share our Control Automation Day with the community. See you tomorrow! 