Control.com Announces Control Automation Day 2022! Control Automation Day 2022 will be on June 21st, focusing on PLC systems, packed with keynote addresses, educational live sessions, and exciting giveaways from your favorite manufacturers! For the first time ever, EETech’s Control Automation team will be joined by manufacturers, vendors, and integrators of some of the most high-tech Programmable Logic Control (PLC) equipment running today’s manufacturing world. We are proud to announce Control Automation Day 2022, held on June 21st, a virtual day filled with insights, education, and chances for some exciting giveaways from your favorite brands.  Programmable logic control (PLC) systems are among the most popular content across the Control Automation space. These systems are common, yet continual skill development is always needed. With new technology constantly appearing on the horizon, it’s important to keep an attentive eye on the industry leaders - not just to learn about new products, but to improve fundamental troubleshooting and maintenance skills necessary for everyday operations. Keynote addresses and sessions with live Q&A will be hosted by EETech’s very own electrical and mechanical engineering team, certain to deliver the most exciting trends and information to help you solve problems and achieve future goals. And we’ll have some fun while we’re at it! Our goal is to provide valuable insights for everyone, regardless of industry application or skill level - from student or entry-level engineer to seasoned control automation veteran.  Dan DeYoung, Global Business Director for Control and Visualization at Rockwell Automation.  Dan will be discussing customer and industry trends in the PLC marketplace from a macro and micro level, assessing the future roadmap for PLC technology, and providing clear guidance on when (and when not to) upgrade a system.  Massimo Banzi, Co-Founder and Chief Marketing Officer of Arduino.  Massimo will share information about the exciting new Pro series of Arduino designed for machine control, and the product designs and features that enable smaller companies to design solutions with open-source abilities, an uncommon feat within the confines of industrial environments.  Since these will be virtual presentations, you can tune in with your headset while working, no matter where you are, or sit down at your desk or during lunch break to learn some new insights about the future of technology in your own facility. Join Control Automation for the day, and encourage your team to join along with you as we help to build a better future for engineers, their organizations, and the entire world! Register for free today at https://control.com/events/control-automation-day-2022 