Adlink Releases EOS-JNX Series AI-Capable Camera System Adlink’s new EOS-JNX Series vision systems are equipped with artificial intelligence (AI) capability and offer new possibilities in security and plant monitoring. Adlink has introduced the EOS-JNX Series of vision systems that can be used for industrial plant monitoring and security. These systems are powered over Ethernet connections and offer AI capabilities, which can help identify small problems before they grow into bigger headaches. What sets the EOS-JNX apart from other camera systems is the NVIDIA Jetson Xavier NX Vision AI vision interface at its core. This puts the power of next-gen AI processing into a compact package, suitable for machine vision and rugged enough for heavy industry. This vision system features Power-Over-Ethernet (PoE) capability, meaning all cameras can transfer data and power over one cable. This is especially efficient in an industrial setting where running additional cables leads to additional costs and complexity during troubleshooting.    The EOS-JNX Series systems have four channels for monitoring entrance doors or doors to trade-secretive areas. They can also be used for monitoring a processing area for remote monitoring of specific tasks. One of the big trends (and, in some cases, legal requirements) is to monitor certain processes remotely while having a way to confirm the position of a gauge visually. These hardware interfaces are capable of running on either 12 or 24 VDC, making them adaptable for many industrial environments. They are fanless, which means fewer moving parts, but are still capable of handling operating temperatures from -20 C to 70 C. Adlink provides an intuitive graphical user interface (GUI) for interfacing with the EOS-JNX Series systems. The EVA software interface can be used with a variety of cameras and other hardware, yet provides a platform that can benefit the engineer and the AI developer alike.    Consider a potentially dangerous process where a pressure gauge must remain below a certain threshold. While there may be an electronic pressure gauge or two in place, an extra layer of surety would be to include a manual gauge and a camera for monitoring it remotely. This way, any anomalies in the electronic gauge can be checked against a manual gauge without sending an operator into a potentially dangerous situation. While any number of camera systems could handle this application, the ability to pair the cameras with AI offers a whole new level of possibilities. AI could monitor for unusual movements of the pressure gauge, such as occasional pressure spikes, which may not be visible on a digital gauge. For example, a digital display may only update every quarter second or so, and may miss subtleties such as small pressure spikes due to line clogging, turbulence or some other affect. It could be paired with a software routine that measures the needle movement and compares it to vibration signatures elsewhere in the process. This may help identify worn bearings on a pump, a failing compressor, or cavitation somewhere in the line. Adlink develops digital tools for the Internet of Things (IoT) and the Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT). With systems deployed in more than 40 countries across 5 continents, Adlink is known for its vision systems and automation hardware. Its vision systems can be deployed in virtually any industrial or commercial environment, ranging from warehouses and logistics to autonomous vehicles to casino and gaming surety. 