Comau Introduces a New Generation of Articulating-Arm Robots Comau announces the release of its new 220 kg payload, 6-axis articulating-arm robot, the N-220-2.7, for more cost-effective automation across multiple industries. Comau S.p.A. is a leading manufacturer and supplier of industrial automation systems. April 6, 2022, the company announced the release of its new, 6-axis articulating arm robot, the N-220-2.7 (N-220). The bot provides Comau’s customers with features that are designed to enable ease-of-use, no-hassle integration, and easier maintenance, as well as lower operating costs, and optimized Mean Time To Repair (MTTR).    The impressive 220 kg (485 lb) payload N-220 is the first of a new generation of 6-axis articulated robots. The bot features a modular design with fewer total components (reduced by 50%) to help ensure ease of assembly, installment, and maintenance. A reduced number of components may also lower supply chain risks. The N-220 is supplied in a basic dressing with a multibus cable (which carries multiple data lines) and an air hose up to the arm’s third axis. Customers have the option of combining an easy dressing solution with a corrugated hose within the hollow forearm, up to the bot’s fifth axis. The easy dressing solution has been designed to incorporate two separate, flexible harnesses (robot and application power supply) to allow for easy and quick upgrades or replacements. The N-220 uses a balancing system with nitrogen for axis 2 (and larger axis 3 stroke-ends). This provides the bot with a wide backward working area, which makes it suitable for bending and agile handling applications. Other features include multiarm programs, visual recalibration for “turn-set” recovery, direct assembly between the motor and the gearbox, the availability of safe motion and safety bus options, and improved Mean Time Before Failure (MTBF) and increased MTTR. The direct assembly between the motor and the gearbox helps to simplify mechanical transmissions and reduce power loss and backlash. This in turn helps boost efficiency and reduce energy consumption. The N-220 uses two motor sizes, and a single oil type, which can help streamline repairs. The bot comes with integrated forklift adapters and optional high-torque washers for automatic base tightening. The bot also implements nodal speech-based coding language, which Comau says allows for easy, open programming. Robots are programmed with such a language by making a series of nodes (where each node represents a command or action) and connecting them.    With a wide working area and a 2.7-meter reach, the N-220 is ideal for use in packaging and material handling operations. The bot is adapted for automated assembly, spot welding, 3D printing, and gluing. The N-220 integrates the use of new, compact drivers, Performance Level D cartesian safety features, and a high payload that can be deployed within several industries including food and beverage, fulfillment and logistics, automotive, and more. For Comau, the new bot will help to strengthen its robotics portfolio, meet customer demand for more cost-effective automation technologies, and target new industry segments. Although collaborative styles of robots have been on an upward trend in industry, and in the news recently, it’s important to understand the role of large industrial robots. High speeds, extreme precision, and heavy payloads are some of the benefits provided by the Comau N-220 six-axis system. 