Banner Engineering’s Snap Signal System for Easy IIoT Development The Snap Signal System by Banner Engineering brings industrial IoT to all devices, including sensors and actuators - regardless of age or origin. Banner Engineering’s Snap Signal System is designed to integrate existing system hardware into Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) infrastructure. The Snap Signal System is a series of connectors and controllers that can perform the cabling, data conversion, storage, and transmission required for modern industrial automation. Suppose a factory has a machine cluster that has been performing reliably. However, the engineering team would like to predict when tools should be changed, and would like to collect more data on this cluster and process it remotely. Rather than retooling the entire machine cluster, the Snap Signal System can be implemented to send some of the existing signals from sensors to a controller that will make the data available on the cloud. According to Banner Engineering, existing equipment systems can be retrofitted to report data to the cloud. To upgrade a manufacturing system for use in IIoT:  Banner Engineering offers several modules that allow legacy devices to be linked to the IIoT. First, their controllers such as the DXMR90, transmit all datasets using a unified communication protocol. This allows data from multiple sources to be used in control loops and data archival purposes. Instead of relying on a technician to wander around the plant and collect diagnostic data, this controller transmits it for storage, making troubleshooting a low-performing machine much simpler.    At the heart of the Snap Signal System are the data converters. These converters act as translators, taking data from different sources which may use different protocols and unifying them into a standard protocol. Data can come from Modbus RTU, IO-Link, and other common protocols. This is particularly useful for systems that have been ad-hoc updated throughout the years, perhaps using different manufacturers for different components. ‘But what if my process consists only of discrete and analog I/O devices’ you may ask? These data converters can translate such raw I/O signals for integration with the controller, they are not reserved for device-level network protocols alone.    Ready or not, here it comes- IIoT is only growing in popularity and utility in the manufacturing plant. To remain competitive, plant managers will need to find places where they can automate repetitive, boring, dangerous, or precise tasks to improve their yield and their throughput. What the Snap Signal System does is lower the barrier to entry into IIoT, allowing legacy systems to interface with cloud storage and remote monitoring and operation. Only minor retrofitting is required, saving both time and money. It’s a good way to get started in IIoT without having to completely retool a manufacturing plant. 