Time is Running Out: Cowen Startup Challenge at Automate 2022 The window is closing for submissions to a funding competition - robotics, machine vision, and AI innovations are taking the center stage for a chance at winning $10,000. Are you ready? Automate 2022 is one of the world’s largest trade shows for all things automation and robotics. In addition to the show floor with exhibitors, the presenters, and the forums, there will be an exciting chance for startups to compete for a $10,000 prize sponsored by Cowen, an investment services firm, if the successful competitor can prove a concept of innovation to scale up to the world. We’ll announce this part first - the deadline is March 31st. The submission details are found at the link hosted by Automate 2022. If you think you fit the bill, this would be an opportunity to investigate very soon! To be eligible, you must be a startup with a history shorter than 5 years and less than $5M raised since starting. Companies operating anywhere in the automation and control system spaces are able to announce their offering, perfect for the wide variety of audiences on our Control Automation platform.    Specifically, you must be prepared to explain your company, the technology you wish to announce and use to transform the world, and an explanation of why your company deserves the funding. Additional audio/video supplemental information may be helpful. If you are chosen as one of the 10 finalists, you will be offered a space to exhibit on the show floor in front of the tens of thousands of visitors. This year’s enormous Automate trade show will be held June 6-9 in Detroit. Hundreds of exhibitors across the automation, robotics, control system, and machine vision space will present the latest developments in technology to boost safety, speed, and reliability for your processes. Imagine those things that you never thought possible - you may just see them in action during Automate! A few of the exhibitors this year will include ABB, Bosch Rexroth, Cognex, Doosan, FANUC America, HP 3D Printing, Mitsubishi Automation, Parker Hannifin, QC Conveyors, Siemens, Universal Robots, Yaskawa, and this list doesn’t even scratch the surface. Keynote and educational sessions will add value to the exhibitor floor, providing ways to apply the knowledge learned to accelerate your own processes. Motivating keynote addresses by executives of (entrepreneurship funding group) Shark Group, GE, and Boston Dynamics lead the ticket. Free events each day culminate with a day of workforce development opportunities for young students to tour the show floor and learn the critical skills and talents that will set them up for career success.    An on-site conference (ticket purchase required) provides a host of basic and specialized classes for any level of learning. The topics are numerous, but a few highlights include machine vision and optics, getting started with robotics, Robots as a Service (RaaS), autonomous mobile robots (AMRs), sensors and cables, collaborative robotics, and many others. There are also two certificate paths that will be conducted during the week - vision and motion control training and certification, with courses that align with the opportunity to attend the show and visit exhibitors while leaving with valuable credentials. It’s no secret that the repetitive challenges of daily tasks can keep a good engineer or technician buried in their job for years. It can certainly be fun, yet absolutely challenging. Occasionally it’s refreshing to keep an eye on some of the latest developments in the world of technology. What better place than at one of the largest trade shows, packed full of learning and professional development opportunities to not just see what others are doing, but learn how your own process can be improved. Maybe I’ll see you there! 