SONAMI adds advanced manufacturing capabilities with its latest expansion efforts Southern Ontario Network for Advanced Manufacturing Innovation (SONAMI), a Niagara College-led consortium of post-secondary academic institutions that provides competitive, disruptive and innovative solutions to Ontario’s manufacturers, welcomed Fleming College as its newest member. Two of Fleming College’s research centres will oversee SONAMI projects: the Centre for Advancement in Mechatronics and Industrial Internet of Things (CAMIIT) and the Centre for Advancement of Water and Wastewater Technologies (CAWT). The CAMIIT is a multipurpose research centre for industrial research and design projects at Sutherland Campus in Peterborough. The addition of Fleming College to SONAMI now brings the total in the network to 11 postsecondary partners, including Centennial, Conestoga, Fanshawe, George Brown, Lambton, Mohawk, Niagara and Sheridan colleges, and McMaster and Queen’s University. Fleming’s SONAMI projects will be funded through a $2-million investment that the network received from the National Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC) through an Applied Research and Technology Partnership (ARTP) grant. The partnership will reportedly expand the range of facilities and expertise available to small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and extend SONAMI’s reach further into southeast Ontario. Through the centralized SONAMI hub, member institutions pool their resources and talent to match them to the needs of SMEs in various industries, giving them access to cutting-edge technologies, knowledge and funding in order to de-risk their applied R&D, create innovative new products and optimize processes. “Fleming’s capabilities through CAMIIT will empower us to deliver cutting-edge solutions in the era of Industry 4.0,” said Marc Nantel, Ph.D., vice-president of Research, Innovation and Strategic Enterprises at Niagara College. “By joining forces with Fleming, we strengthen our commitment to fostering the growth of SMEs in the manufacturing industry through collaborative research projects. Together, we will provide invaluable opportunities for students to gain practical experience and contribute to real-world projects, ensuring a skilled workforce for the future. This collaboration marks an exciting milestone in SONAMI’s journey to drive innovation and competitiveness in the advanced manufacturing sector.” CAMIIT’s capabilities can be used to solve a wide variety of real-world challenges. 