AGV Applications Utilize Luxonis Cameras With ams OSRAM Dot Projector Luxonis has recently announced a partnership with ams OSRAM Group, to combine their individual technologies using OSRAM’s Belago 1.1 for its recent OAK-D Pro spatial AI camera. Luxonis is a leading provider of perception solutions for robotics and automation. They have recently announced a partnership with ams OSRAM Group to combine technologies. Luxonis created an ecosystem with cloud management, AI training, software, firmware, and hardware specifically focused on making robotic perception easy, calling this ecosystem DepthAI. They also have a suite of OAK-D cameras, capable of providing information for automation processes and robotics. The ams OSRAM Group (SIX: AMS) is a global leader in optical solutions. They have around 26,000 employees spread across the globe. With over 15,000 patents, ams OSRAM is a leader in innovation for sensing, illumination, visualization, and medical diagnostics, including innovations for many other disciplines. They are headquartered in Premstaetten/Graz (Austria) with a co-headquarters in Munich (Germany).    The combination of Luxonis and ams OSRAM gives a unique opportunity to create growth for both companies, with the goal of creating new and innovative products for their customers. Recently Luxonis chose ams OSRAM’s Belago 1.1 for its recent OAK-D Pro spatial AI camera. The OAK-D Pro spatial AI camera is used for object detection and can provide fast and accurate information to Autonomous Mobile Robots (AMRs). They have also released Active Stereo, which can be used for object tracking in real-time no matter the light setting. Luxonis uses ams OSRAM’s Belago 1.1 dot projector in order to analyze infrared light sources for 3-D mapping capabilities. The 3-D maps are used by AMRs to create a superior system for machine guidance. The Belago 1.1 combines an infrared VCSEL chip with special optics to create a robust package that works for active stereo vision (ASV). ASV allows depth to be created by reading two different infrared cameras. The cameras read the pattern Belago 1.1 projects on a defined field of view. From the field of view the system is able to create a 3-D understanding of the AMRs surroundings, by comparing the two images to create “depth.” With the depth map, the AMR is able to make decisions on its surroundings for collision avoidance and object detection.    Luxonis decided to use the ams OSRAM’s Belago 1.1 for its most recent addition, the OAK-D Pro spatial AI camera. They needed something capable of providing fast object detection and avoidance, with the OAK-D Pro fitting that bill. It can provide object detection through AI and contains open-source software that allows for fast and flexible integration. The Belago 1.1 contains an infrared pattern projector that projects up to 5000 different light dots, to increase depth perception. The dots are generated by combining a VCSEL with a micro lens array (MLA) optical system. All of this combines to create what Luxonis claims will fit into a wide variety of application environments. The system hopes to provide versatility for customers. It is designed to be space saving with dimensions of 4.2 mm x 3.6 mm x 3.3 mm, allowing users to make a space-conscious fitment. The system can be used in low light conditions and features a range of one to three meters for collision avoidance. The combination of Luxonis and ams OSRAM has created a new system capable of helping AMRs with their collision avoidance needs. 