RS adds to its smart manufacturing solutions with five new suppliers RS expanded its selection of smart manufacturing solutions with the addition of five new suppliers: HMS Industrial Networks, Lutronic, OptiFuse, Bosch Rexroth Technology and Beijer Electronics. HMS Industrial Networks creates industrial information and communication technologies (ICT) designed to connect industrial devices to surrounding systems and the internet and facilitate communication with critical software. These hardware-meets-software (HMS) solutions reportedly often support wireless, cloud and IIoT connectivity, and enable valuable data gathering and analytics that can help makers and users of industrial equipment increase productivity and sustainability. HMS Industrial Networks products are deployed in millions of industrial applications. Solutions available at RS include industrial data communications products, connectors, antennas, wire and cable, power products and test and measurement devices. Lutronic, a sister company of the globally respected Lumberg Group connectivity company, which established the M12 circular connector as a global standard in the early 1980s, designs and develops connectors, wiring solutions, and sensors optimized for industrial automation applications, as well as corresponding passive distribution boxes and LED lights. Solutions available at RS include a variety of sensor and actuator wires and high-quality M8 and M12 connectors engineered for robust performance in power, signal, and data applications. OptiFuse designs and manufactures quality, reliable, and economical overcurrent and over-voltage protection products that customers can trust to safeguard circuitry in consumer and industrial electronics applications and emergency, heavy-duty, recreational, and marine vehicles. Solutions available at RS include fuses, circuit breakers, fuse holders and terminal covers. Bosch Rexroth Assembly Technology offers future-proof production solutions extending from flow racks and frames made of aluminum profiles to ergonomic assembly workstations and conveyor systems for fully automated manufacturing lines. Products available at RS include workstation solutions ranging from bolts and basic mechanical elements to height-adjustable workstations and chairs and LED system lamps. Beijer Electronics designs and produces hardware and software solutions used to connect people and technologies and optimize essential processes across a range of industries. Their portfolio of industrial HMI solutions enables intuitive operator communication and supports industrial automation solutions and digitalization efforts designed to accelerate automation. Beijer Electronics products available at RS include PLCs, HMIs, protocol converters, compact controllers and connectors. 