Epson Updates SCARA Robot Lineup Epson combines user-friendly software programming with its latest SCARA robots. Epson is dedicated to creating sustainability and enriching communities. Its robot division provides robots that run on a PC-based platform. Epson recently released two new robots to their SCARA lineup. The T6-B and T3-B are “all-in-one” SCARA robotic systems. Epson hopes to provide robots that are easy to install and program.    The T6-B and the T3-B are the same type of robot in different size classes. The T6-B is the larger of the two, with a reach of 600 mm and a payload of up to 6 kg. The T3-B is the smaller robot, with a 400 mm reach and a payload of up to 3 kg. Epson claims that both robots are easily integrable into current plant processes, and can often save customers time and money for SCARA integration. The T6-B and T3-B are available for $9,495 and $7,495, respectively. The robots install in minutes since they do not use a slide-based system like comparable robotic systems. Space constraint issues are greatly reduced due to the robots' capability to run on 110 V or 220 V power. End of arm tool (EoaT) power can be supplied by the robot, helping reduce the amount of cable and plumbing routed on the robot.  Epson offers two software options for programming the T6-B and the T3-B. Epson RC+ is a more advanced programming method offering users a comprehensive suite of advanced tools and features. The environment is completely integrated with higher system efficiency.    Epson recently developed the Epson RC+ Express for less experienced programmers and users new to the robotics scene. The Epson RC+ Express is a no-code programming method capable of automating simple applications. Its visual interface is user-friendly and lowers the entry barrier for first-time robot programmers.  The T-Series SCARA robots are useful in many applications—from packaging, pick and place, dispensing, to inspection. The robots arrive with the same software systems found on Epson’s larger high-end robotic systems, giving users good value for their investment. Epson aims to provide good value with good reliability and powerful robotic features.    Several industries may find these new SCARA robotic systems helpful, including the following.  Epson says the robots will be available for purchase and integration starting mid-March 2022. They can be bought through one of Epson's distribution partners. As the demand for robots rises, Epson hopes to do its part by offering a SCARA system with various programming methods for ease of use and higher efficiency. 