Emerson’s Edge Solutions Helps OEMs Implement IIoT and Edge Computing Emerson announces a new portfolio of solutions designed to address challenges and core issues control engineers face implementing edge computing for IIoT and Industry 4.0. PACSystems Edge Solutions is Emerson’s new portfolio of industrial turnkey edge hardware and software solutions, serving as an IIoT (industrial internet of things) application enablement platform to aid in developing Industry 4.0 solutions that are data-intensive and scalable.  Edge computing refers to a distributed framework for processing data as close to its source as possible, which results in low-latency, real-time access to data analyzed at the machine level.    There are many options on the market for edge computing software and hardware. And for many control engineers, it can be challenging to assemble an IIoT that can capture data at the edge and process it with deep analysis to provide actionable information for critical areas such as energy use, machinery health, and productivity. Emerson’s PACSystems Edge Solutions combines Emerson computing hardware with IIoT and edge software to reduce the difficulty of developing, implementing, and scaling edge solutions while allowing control engineers and operators intuitive, efficient access to the real-time data, analysis, and visualizations they need.  Emerson PACSystems Edge Solutions uses a Connext OPC-UA server as the protocol gateway and Movicon. The latter serves as the supervisory platform. Emerson Movicon WebHMI supports local visualization of automation systems, and Movicon WebClient is used for remote visualization. In addition, the Pro.Lean software package can be integrated with this system to support lean manufacturing. Combined with other software packages, PACEdge can provide a cloud-enabled toolset that supports connectivity and visualization.  In addition, Emerson has made fit-for-use packages available to further simplify the process of implementing and scaling edge computing and IIoT.    Emerson PACEdge was designed with seamless scaling and interconnectivity in mind. The Emerson RXi edge solutions are one facet of this, allowing control engineers to easily move from pilot to enterprise implementation. Emerson RXi solutions include: Products such as those found in the PACSystems Edge portfolio enable control systems engineers to quickly develop, implement, and scale edge computing solutions that support IIoT and Industry 4.0. 