SICK Expands Wireless Networking of IIoT Devices With Acquisition of MOBILISIS SICK completed its acquisition of Croatian IT company, MOBILISIS, in the new year. SICK manufactures sensors and sensor solutions for industrial applications. The company’s product offerings include other components from switches, connectors, encoders, mounting systems, and accessories. SICK’s products are utilized in consumer goods, packaging, food and beverage, automotive, electronics, material handling, parcel, oil and gas, logistics, power, cement industries, and more.    Recently, SICK announced the competition of its acquisition of Croatian IT company, MOBILISIS, as of January 1, 2022. The acquisition is intended to expand SICK’s expertise in the wireless networking of industrial internet of things (IoT) devices.  MOBILISIS develops information technology (IT) infrastructure solutions and offers customers industrial process management, mobile data collection, transmission, IoT, vehicle parameter detection analysis, and other services. The company operates its business in communications and equipment manufacturing, computer and electronic product manufacturing, and other industries. MOBILISIS will bring SICK its portfolio of sensor-based cloud and edge solutions. The aim is to seamlessly connect sensor data and cloud platforms. This will enable more effective and rapid networking between IT and operational technology (OT). SICK plans to utilize MOBILISIS’ expertise and product offerings to provide more digital localization solutions for companies gearing up for Industry 4.0 operations. The idea centers around delivering greater transparency for goods. This may involve the ability to locate goods, collate data concerning any faults or damage, as well as data needed to locate faulty goods, and alert relevant teams or machinery to resolve product defects to maintain the production quality.    In a press release from SICK, MOBILISIS noted how they hope the acquisition will accelerate their growth and enhance their reputation on the market. The Executive Board member at SICK, Dr. Niels Syassen, also commented, “Together with the experienced colleagues at MOBILISIS, we will more quickly be able to offer application-specific digital sensor system solutions and services.”  Industry 4.0 is a term for the fourth industrial revolution, which is the fusion of digital technologies, automated processes, and information management. It aims to create a more efficient system that eliminates human error and streamlines processes. Product transparency in Industry 4.0 operations is typically achieved through virtualization, automation, digitization, and integration of data into one platform. Product transparency enables greater visibility on the supply chain, allowing businesses to monitor every aspect of production through consistent data-sharing between all parties involved in an Industry 4.0 operation. This makes it easier to identify potential problems before they happen so that manufacturers can take corrective action on time if necessary. Integrating MOBILISIS’ process management platform with SICK’s sensor families can provide manufacturers with the right tools for Industry 4.0 and digital transformation. 