Augmented Reality (AR) and Digital Twin Organizations Establish Strategic Partnership The Augmented Reality for Enterprise Alliance (AREA) and the Digital Twin Consortium (DTC) partner to improve manufacturing. AREA, or Augmented Reality for Enterprise Alliance, was started in 2009 as a global initiative. By 2013, it was incorporated as a nonprofit. AREA was developed to be committed to the global advancement of AR technology in enterprise. Since then, it has focused on reducing obstacles to developing open and interoperable AR content and experiences.    AREA believes that AR holds a key building block for the future of business enterprise. Its goal is to help companies see the potential in AR through the following. The organization hopes many companies will find breakthroughs in manufacturing through AR that have yet to be found. The Digital Twin Consortium (DTC) is a global ecosystem encompassing industry, government, and academia. They were founded to help enable technology and accelerate the development of digital twins. The DTC was based on three major principles:  DTC members are focused on using digital twins throughout their global operations and supply chains. They have developed best practices and guidelines for the efficient use of digital twins to better help customers.  AREA and DTC have recently established a strategic relationship to bring their technologies closer together. The collaboration offers many benefits to both companies and their respective customers. They hope the partnership will allow them to bring significant improvements in the following areas. They have signed a Memorandum of Understanding stating they will work together to define industry standards and increase enabling technology components to interoperate. They aim to create joint marketing efforts as well as develop proof-of-value projects and programs.    Currently, OEMs can use AR for predictive maintenance and safety checks by simulating the equipment in 3D. Similarly, digital twinning is often used in industry for vehicle design and planning. However, these technologies have countless more applications in manufacturing. When the companies begin working together, they will likely begin working closely to develop projects, events, and resources. Their joint resource endeavor hopes to show an increase in webinars, white papers, and presentations. The combination of AREA and DTC brings about a promising relationship for the future of both organizations. They expect to expand clientele while merging technologies, creating more AR and digital twinning potential. They also hope to help their customers improve efficiency and safety, and create breakthroughs in the manufacturing industry. 