NIST Unveils International Cybersecurity and Privacy Resources Website What new resources can engineers find on this website? The National Institute of Science and Technology (NIST) has released a new website containing cybersecurity and privacy resources. According to an article on the NIST website, the latest resources mainly aim to assist the Institute’s international colleagues.  The National Institute of Science and Technology is part of the U.S. Department of Commerce. Established in 1901, NIST is today one of the U.S. oldest physical science laboratories. The Institute provides the country with many technology, measurement, and standards for a wide array of industries. These include smart electric power grid and electronic health records, atomic clocks, advanced nanomaterials, and computer chips, among others. NIST measurements support applications from nanoscale devices to earthquake-resistant skyscrapers and global communication networks.    As far as NIST’s portfolio of services for measurements, standards, and legal metrology is concerned, the institute provides solutions that ensure measurement traceability, enabling quality assurance and harmonizing documentary standards as well as regulatory practices.  NIST’s international engagement includes participation in and engagement with Standards Developing Organizations (SDOs) on efforts related to cybersecurity and privacy to promote a standards-based approach in areas that scale internationally. NIST has reportedly participated in several international engagements over the last fall, including various events concerning Cybersecurity Awareness Month in October. The Institute has been collaborating with the Commercial Law Development Program (CLDP), sharing information on their privacy and cybersecurity resources with the governments of Bangladesh and Pakistan. NIST also had discussions with the government of Australia and participated in a virtual event organized by Uruguay, which highlights its adaptation of the Cybersecurity Framework. NIST’s colleagues at the State Department and International Trade Administration (ITA) facilitated sharing information and resources with other countries including the Republic of Korea, Japan, Iraq, and Kenya.    The Institute presented on the Cybersecurity Framework and draft Cybersecurity Framework Profile for Ransomware Risk Management at a meeting that was hosted by the U.S. Embassy in Denmark on various cybersecurity threats, including ransomware attacks.  The site contains multiple translations and adaptations of NIST cybersecurity and privacy resources. The website offers users various official and unofficial translations of the Cybersecurity Framework, Privacy Framework, NICE Framework, and IoT Cybersecurity Program Documents. The free resources include a video section with a series of resources not developed by NIST, showcasing projects conducted in collaboration between the Institute and foreign governments.   These include the application of the Cybersecurity Framework in Uruguay, its adoption by  Saudi Aramco, and the development of a strategy by NTT in Japan adapting components of the NICE Framework to build a cybersecurity workforce.
For more information about the website, you can get in touch with NIST at this email address. What do you think about this new website? Let us know in the comment section down below. 