READY Robotics Partners with Futura Automation to Bring Intuitive Automation to Manufacturers in Western U.S. READY Robotics is branching out to the manufacturers in the Western US through a strategic partnership with Futura Automation that will also leverage Forge/OS. READY Robotics, known for software designed to simplify the automation process, has partnered with Futura Automation, specializing in automated assembly, material handling, and AI-driven machine vision solutions.    This partnership will also make READY Robotics technology available to manufacturers in the Western United States. The states impacted are AR, CA, IA, ID, KS, LA, MN, MO, MT, ND, NE, OK, OR, SD, TX, and WA. The ability to provide solutions to these states will be made possible as Futura Automation becomes the stocking distributor for READY Robotics in these states. Together they will combine READY Robotics’ core product, Forge/OS universal operating system, with Futura Automation technology to provide intuitive automation solutions.    The other primary goal of this partnership is to provide solutions to production challenges, boost output, and alleviate current labor issues through the integration of Forge/OS. READY Robotics Forge/OS platform will be embedded into several of Futura Automation’s standard manufacturing solutions, starting with machine tool robot tending and flexible feeding.  When discussing the partnering with Futura Automation, Ben Gibbs, CEO and Co-Founder of READY Robotics, mentioned, “Their strong presence across the Western US, and extensive experience helping manufacturers automate a wide range of manufacturing processes, make them an ideal partner to represent Forge/OS-powered automation.”  Forge/OS provides a single programming interface for hundreds of industrial and collaborative robots and supports the peripherals needed to achieve successful automation. Forge/OS already supports robotics manufacturers such as ABB, FANUC, Epson, Universal Robots, Yaskawa, and Staubli. One of the critical benefits of Forge/OS is its ability to simplify the often complex and overwhelming move to automation through a no-code programming approach. In addition, READY Robotics makes available extensive training to ensure that users are getting the most out of their investment.    The Forge/OS software platform will also support Futura Automation’s goal of combining robots from different brands to develop a comprehensive solution for customers and make it easier for users to perform tasks such as recovering systems, modifying programs, and developing programs for new parts.  Futura Automation has already partnered with other industry leaders on these two solutions. A machine tool robot tending solution will combine VersaBuilt, Gantry Robotics, Sanyo Denki, and Macron Dynamics technology. The flexible feeding project involves partners Fanuc, Cognex, and Flexfactory. Note that other solutions are already under consideration. The partnership between Ready Robotics and Futura Automation could potentially help manufacturers in the western portion of the United States and any manufacturing facility interested in automated solutions. 