The Midwest's First Robotics Plant Dedicated to Agriculture WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Solinftec, a global leader in artificial intelligence solutions and sustainable agricultural practices, strengthened its partnership with WHIN and expanded its manufacturing capacity in the U.S. through collaboration with Still Waters Manufacturing. The production of the Solix robot in the WHIN region of Indiana strengthens Solinftec's presence in the U.S. from the last quarter. The collaboration and efforts of the companies will make robotic technology more accessible to American producers, leading to a significant reduction in herbicide use and promoting sustainable agriculture. "This partnership represents a significant milestone for the US agricultural industry, and it's gratifying to see two companies from our network bringing innovation to our region. Collaboration among all parties was crucial to the success of this project," said Johnny Park, CEO of WHIN. The factory, with the capacity to produce up to 20 Solix robots per day, benefits from the experience of Jake Church, CEO of Still Waters Manufacturing. "There's something truly special about building these robots in rural Indiana. They will come out of what used to be a school, where many farmers and livestock producers in this area received their primary education. This venture is an opportunity to 'rewrite' history. A dear friend of mine often says, 'If you want to know the future, go build it,'" Church said. The business received an initial investment of over $2 million from Solinftec for the next two harvests, ensuring continued annual growth. "This will be the first agricultural robotics factory in the American Midwest," Church added. The team involved in Solix manufacturing will consist of workers living near the region served by Still Waters Manufacturing, many of them local farmers. "This work brings the community close, seeking to develop and innovate agriculture in the region with technology," said Guilherme Guiné, chief operations officer of Solinftec for North America. The use of Solinftec solutions has already led to a reduction of up to 97% in herbicide volume on properties using the Solix robot in the U.S. The key differentiator is that, through the collaboration of the three companies, the solutions will be adapted to the reality of the American Midwest. 