Using HMI Software to Empower the Workforce Digital transformation is advancing technologies within  organizations, driving innovation, streamlining and optimizing operations, and  improving business agility. Technology is also enabling employees  to work more efficiently and in areas that are more fulfilling and valuable,  with many repetitive or mundane tasks being automated. In this article, we  explore modern Human Machine Interface (HMI) software and how the tools enabled  by that software are empowering designers and operators. When a software or application design team is designing a  system, whether they are in-house or working within an OEM, it is common to  have multiple designers working on various parts of the same project  simultaneously. It is therefore important for those designers to be able to  collaborate easily, flexibly, securely, and transparently, regardless of  location. Whether working in the design environment in an office or at home,  they need consistent quality access and user experience. Real-time project visibility is also critical in the design  phase, especially with multiple people on the design side touching a project.  Lack of visibility can make it difficult to track progress. Who made the  changes? When? And why? Without this information, there is the risk of  repeating work or inadvertently overriding changes someone else made, which can  cause project delays and waste valuable design resources and budget. This is  where the collaboration tools within modern HMI software can make design easier  for teams. They provide comprehensive project visibility in a collaborative environment and connect designers to timely, useful information needed  to make fast and smart decisions. HMI access to cloud or web-based tools in a  centrally or cloud-based location enables teams to design and deploy an  application remotely and make changes or updates within the production  environment when needed. With multiple developers able to augment, develop and test  each other's work, either in real-time or in sequence, code management and  version control are vital elements of the design process. It is here that a  centralized project repository, such as GitHub, is key. Working within an HMI  interface, design tools and code can be integrated directly into that  centralized repository. So, when designers are working with others on  applications, this integration enables multiple users to make changes and  easily merge their changes into the master version. Potential duplication of  efforts can be flagged and resolved internally. With everything integrated within the centralized environment  to provide a visualization of the overall project status, teams can see the entire  change history of an application version control - showing who made changes, when and why, along with  different versions of pieces and parts, along with the whole overall  application. The collaborative environment created through HMI tools also  enables OEMs to work with customers to build applications, share  ideas or code snippets, troubleshoot solutions, and evaluate objects and demo  applications via a shared centralized repository. Another area where the HMI design tool empowers designers is  creating reusable code libraries stored in the centralized code repository.  That code can be reused easily by other people within an organization and can  be tweaked and used in other applications. The benefit of having this readily  accessible code repository is that the code is trusted and proven in the field.  So, designers can utilize code modules that they know will work. They can simply  drag and drop them right into the code blocks and build the application's  differentiator code around that. Once a project has been developed, deployed to the field,  and is running on the plant floor, it moves into the jurisdiction  of operators. They are now the key stakeholders running that application, so if  an alarm or some other problem occurs, they need the means to notify the right  people. If the maintenance engineers, for example, are not on-site, remote assistance  is crucial for operational continuity. With HMI tools, operators are empowered through remote  access for maintenance. Accessing these tools enables issues to be  flagged, and notifications sent to the maintenance engineer to contact the  operator. It may be that the issue can be resolved via the built-in chat tool,  with the operator relaying what they are seeing and maintenance responding with  suggested options to resolve the issue. However, resolution may require  escalation, so remote access to the HMI tools is crucial in letting the maintenance  engineer see what the operator sees on the screen. Together they can work  through and identify what the problem is, make changes if a change is needed,  and deploy that change remotely. That maintenance change to an application that  is running is saved into the cloud repository, so teams know that they are running  an updated version of the application. For OEMs, the ability to connect with customers via the HMI  tool delivers business value in terms of remote support and issue resolution.  This saves time and of course, the money it takes to travel to a site. The net  benefit of this to both OEM and the customer is that the quicker  problems can be triaged and solved, the more uptime there is, which enhances  business continuity. A modern HMI can empower an organization’s workforce by  removing barriers to valuable information and providing access to data and  applications independent of location. Applications can be designed  collaboratively and transparently, with development coordinated and stored in a  shared, centralized repository. The clarity the HMI provides optimizes and  speeds the development cycle as all stakeholders have up-to-date status, with  updates and changes clearly defined, avoiding redundant and duplicate work. On the operational side, HMI tools enable operators to see  and respond to production issues quickly. Instead of monitoring screens to know  when alarms happen, operators can be remotely notified and take immediate  action themselves, or escalate for remote maintenance support and resolution. The big-picture benefits for enterprises are optimization of  design, operational and maintenance resources, faster design cycles, improved  time to market, and faster issue resolution, which can drive improved revenues,  operational excellence, and customer satisfaction. 