Lessons Learned From 400 Smart Manufacturing Projects in Indiana Cobots. Industrial Internet of Things. Machine vision and 3D printing. These technologies are part of the Industry 4.0 lexicon. But these smart technologies become much more than words when you consider adding them to your factory floor to increase productivity, competitiveness and profitability. As more manufacturers adopt Industry 4.0 technologies, best practices emerge for successful technology deployments. In its ”Manufacturing Readiness Grants Program: 2022 Impact Report,” Conexus Indiana, a nonprofit focused on supporting the continued growth of Indiana’s advanced manufacturing industry, analyzed technology trends and use cases at 170 small to mid-sized manufacturers that have participated in the State of Indiana’s Manufacturing Readiness Grants program, which awards matching grants to qualifying manufacturers. Through May 2023, 425 grants totaling $45 million have been awarded, stimulating private-sector project investments of $628 million. Additionally, Conexus Indiana has published nearly 50 case studies detailing these technology projects. A workcell at Metro Plastics in Indiana.Conexus Indiana In addition to painting a picture of Indiana’s Industry 4.0 landscape, the cases point to lessons learned. Here are four insights that may benefit companies preparing to make the Industry 4.0 leap. When Conexus first started studying Industry 4.0 technology adoption trends in Indiana, lack of clear return on investment (ROI) and internal skill presented two major barriers to widespread adoption at small to mid-sized companies. Enter 2023: Companies are acutely aware of the benefits and business impact of Industry 4.0 tech investments, and they know their workforce is up to the challenge. Companies are stepping into more complex projects like machine learning, artificial intelligence, big data and analytics and autonomous mobile robots. Undoubtedly, the most successful companies will be those that keep these four insights in mind. Ryan Henderson is director of Innovation and Digital Transformation at Conexus Indiana.Conexus IndianaRyan Henderson is director of Innovation and Digital Transformation at Conexus Indiana. 