How Equipment Health Analytics Help Achieve True Lights-Out Operations “Lights-out” operations in distribution centers and warehouses  help organizations improve efficiency and reduce costs in today’s competitive  business environment. In a lights-out distribution center or warehouse, there  is little or no human presence, and the facility is operated entirely by  automated equipment. When moving towards lights-out operations, companies tend  to focus on the logistic efficiency and better end user experiences, often  overlooking equipment health analytics. But even minor equipment issues can  significantly reduce productivity and efficiency in a largely automated  warehouse. True lights-out operations can only be achieved by introducing  automated methods to monitor equipment health and reliability, ensuring that  the automation equipment runs as intended without the need for unplanned human  intervention. Distribution centers and warehouses play a critical role in  the supply chain and form the backbone of a company’s logistics and  distribution operations. They receive, organize, identify, and store items  before sending them out to shipping bays, where they are shipped to stores,  customers, or other distribution centers. Automated distribution centers already exist, with most of  the manual labor being performed by robots and machinery, but tasks such as  product picking, packing, and labeling are often still carried out manually.  The logistics of shipping and distribution centers are typically a hybrid of  manual and automatic. Current lights-out distribution systems still require a  group of repair and maintenance engineers to be constantly available to deal  with potential equipment failures, which prevents them from achieving true  lights-out status. All too frequently, companies focus on operational costs,  product analytics, and equipment failure risk rather than paying close  attention to the health of the equipment itself. While logistic analytics are  important, ignoring equipment health comes with serious pitfalls. Equipment  failures are expensive and time-consuming, both because of repair costs and  productivity loss. If a piece of machinery on a car assembly line fails, for  example, a parallel line must be used at a higher rate, putting the second line  at higher risk until the first line can be repaired, and operational efficiency  falls. In distribution centers, most of the equipment tends to be specialized,  so repairing failures is especially costly. Many companies already have systems and technologies in  place to monitor automation equipment, including video analysis for size and  shape complexities. These systems can be adapted to monitor equipment health as  well. With equipment monitoring built into every step of the process, the  automated system will be able to predict equipment failures before they happen  with the help of predictive analytics, order replacement parts, and coordinate  the necessary services of repair technicians well in advance. For example, a  distribution center might make use of miles of conveyor lines. Repetitive motion  could eventually cause the moving parts to show wear and tear. Worn-out parts  often have higher surface temperatures than good parts. This change in the  part’s heat signature when compared to past reference temperatures will allow  the predictive analytics system to recognize there is a problem with the part  and plan to order a replacement part or notify a repair technician—preparing to  address the issue before a portion of the conveyor line stops functioning or  breaks entirely. The difference between lights-out and true lights-out  operations is the difference between reactive and proactive equipment  maintenance. Rather than waiting for failure to occur and responding once it  does, a true lights-out operation monitors equipment health and engages in  predictive maintenance. The use of equipment health monitoring and predictive  analytics reduces the need for emergency manual intervention and allows minimal  teams of engineers to monitor potentially hundreds of distribution centers. Larger companies are already devoting research and  resources to true lights-out operations. Amazon’s Reliability Maintenance and  Engineering wing is devoted to researching and expanding their effort towards  utilizing equipment health and predictive analytics. Smaller companies are  often reluctant to adopt equipment health analytics because of the higher  initial costs. Yet, with improved equipment reliability and plant efficiency,  they will save money in the long run by investing in these solutions. Adding equipment health analytics to a lights-out  distribution center will allow companies to achieve true lights-out operations,  which will benefit their efficiency, productivity, and bottom line. By  leveraging the power of data analysis and visualization techniques  organizations can monitor equipment performance and condition, proactively  address potential issues, improve efficiency, and enhance safety. All  organizations that utilize automation equipment like distribution centers, from  the automobile to the farming industry, can benefit from using equipment health  analytics to move towards true lights-out operations.   Shreedhar  Murthy Hebbur Subbaraju has over two decades of experience in product and systems  design and manufacturing engineering. His expertise ranges from complex  injection moldings to critical aero engine component development. He has an honors  bachelor’s degree in mechanical engineering from Bangalore University, India. Shreedhar  has served as an expert reviewer to Edison Awards. For further information,  contact [email protected]. 