Robotics Are Stuck in Neutral Without Human Management Throughout the industrial world and across every continent, businesses  are making significant investments in robotics and automation. According to the  McKinsey Global Industrial Robotics Survey, automated systems will account for  25 percent of capital spending over the next five years1. Many of these  businesses believe robotics-driven automation systems will drive major benefits  in output quality, efficiency, and uptime. That being said, there are challenges for these  implementations to be successful, including the cost of investment, experience  in deploying projects, and the belief that more robotics will mean companies  can rely less on human capital. The report illustrates several industries that are expected  to see major growth in the use of robotics and automation, such as retail and  consumer goods, where 23 percent of retail survey respondents plan to spend more than  $500 million. That compares with 15 percent in food and beverage and eight percent in automotive1. However, logistics and fulfillment operations are expected  to realize 30 percent or more of their overall capital investing over the next five  years, which would place it as the number-one player in robotics. This most  likely won’t surprise anyone, as companies like Amazon and Wal-Mart – and their  logistics partners – have been battling to leverage technology to increase  competitive efficiencies over the last five years. The fundamental benefits of robotics and automation cannot  be ignored, and virtually every industrial deployment will result in a more  intelligent use of resources. In most cases it frees the human employee from  mundane, repetitive tasks and empowers them to concentrate on core business  objectives instead, bringing about numerous benefits to the workplace. In the early days of robotics there was plenty of chatter  about robots fully replacing human workers. The thinking was that robots will  eventually outsmart humans and there will be less need for human capital. This  has clearly not been the case, nor is it today’s path of robotics and  automation. However, they are planning to represent a considerable  amount of the average industrial company’s production strategy going forward.  According to a March 2017 report on automation in the workplace by  PricewaterhouseCoopers, as many as 30 percent of jobs in the UK, 38 percent of  jobs in the US, 35 percent of jobs in Germany, and 21 percent of jobs in Japan  are at risk of being replaced by machine-based automation by the early 2030s2. Even more recently, 10.5 million jobs remained open, with roughly 1.7 jobs  available per worker at the end of November 20223. While low headcounts of workers seem to be  the new norm, robotics are not replacing anyone, but are filling the gaps that  can’t be covered with labor. Robotics tend to do the least desirable and most  repetitive jobs in the supply chain. There are a handful of documented reasons why humans and  human labor will continue to play a significant role – despite the growth in  robotics and automation. Robots don’t understand emotional thoughts. Robots operate  on rationally programed logic. However, there will always be irrational  variables that involve emotional critical thinking in the decision-making  process. This is why human labor will be important in supervising robotics - so  that changes can occur depending on any number of irrational changes to the  environment. Robots can’t understand context. Especially for  manufacturing jobs that require analysis, or the interpretation of slang from  different countries and cultures, some robotics and automation may struggle in  these types of warehouse production roles. Lastly, robotics don’t  understand customer service. Robotics and automation may continue to prove  challenging as industrial companies try to implement these functions into  remote customer site visits for service and repair, for example. AI-powered  robotics will always be programmed to deliver the most pragmatic solution  without any consideration of how that might affect future customer  relationships. In each of these scenarios  robotics can play a role, but not without human interaction. As a result,  successful industrial companies today are finding the right balance here and  leveraging labor management technologies to better manage the relationship  between human capital and robotics. In a recent industrial-focused survey, 36 percent of executives  said they currently leverage labor management system technology for their  warehouse operations, and another 29 percent said they plan to make investments in  this type of technology in 20233. These companies are relying on labor management technologies  to inject more flexibility and to quickly adapt to a rapidly-evolving  marketplace using robotics and automation. It provides logistics and warehouse personnel with greater productivity and efficiency in responding to everything  from increasing customer demand to rapid shifts in the use of robotics and  automation programs on the floor. This strategy is helping to modernize legacy warehouse  environments through real-time visibility into delivery, labor management, and  operations to satisfy escalating customer expectations, save valuable resources, and reduce overhead costs even further. The ability to optimize any facet of  the warehouse automation system enables a highly flexible and responsive supply  chain operation. More importantly, today’s advanced labor management solutions  can leverage historical robotics data to create smarter performance tracking  across the life of each automated system without complex and costly projects.  In many cases, companies can leverage this technology to reduce data refresh  from eight hours of programmed analysis to just a couple of minutes for  more real-time decision-making of labor needs. Robotics and automation will continue to grow throughout the  industrial commercial landscape. But without the use of intelligent labor management  technology, these companies may not realize the efficiency and effectiveness needed to manage their  robotics systems and realize optimum logistics and warehouse functions. Mike Babiak is the Director of  Supply Chain Technology Strategy for Longbow Advantage. For more information, visit www.longbowadvantage.com. 1: https://www.mckinsey.com/industries/industrials-and-electronics/our-insights/unlocking-the-industrial-potential-of-robotics-and-automation 2: https://www.pwc.co.uk/economic-services/ukeo/pwcukeo-section-4-automation-march-2017-v2.pdf 3: https://www.msn.com/en-us/money/markets/employers-added-223000-jobs-in-december-unemployment-falls-to-35/ar-AA162Pew 4: Longbow Advantage online survey presented to more than  2,500 industry executives; December 2022. 