Hexagon strengthens additive manufacturing portfolio with CADS Additive acquisition Hexagon has completed the acquisition of CADS Additive, a fast-growing provider of specialized software that helps companies prepare designs for metal additive manufacturing (AM). Hexagon notes in a press statement that CADS Additive simplifies the process of 3D printing on powder bed fusion (PBF) machines. The software guides users through the build preparation, helping companies turn design files into printer instructions and improve their manufacturing productivity. CADS Additive has been a partner of Hexagon since 2021, integrating its build preparation and support structure creation capabilities with Hexagon’s Simufact Additive process simulation software. Shared development roadmaps will further improve workflows, allowing users to adjust the orientation and support structure of their 3D prints. This will reportedly help shorten the additive manufacturing (AM) workflow and provide easy-to-follow steps to mitigate quality implications caused by changes to the orientation or support structure. “Our investments reflect the growing importance of additive manufacturing, which has huge potential but has been held back by a fragmented ecosystem that means manufacturers are not getting the results they need fast enough. The acquisition of CADS Additive enables us to provide our customers with integrated tools that empower manufacturing teams to reduce waste and increase efficiency as they move from prototyping to production,” said Hexagon president and CEO Paolo Guglielmini. “Opening up the Nexus platform to our ecosystem partners and providing building blocks like CADS Additive helps customers improve their processes throughout the manufacturing value chain and realize the potential of industrial additive manufacturing.” The AM Studio software from CADS Additive is already connected to Hexagon’s Nexus digital reality platform. The software will complete Hexagon’s Nexus-enabled AM workflow, applying its technology portfolio to computer-aided design (CAD) model preparation, build preparation, simulation-based optimizations, quality and production intelligence and the automation of computer-aided manufacturing (CAM) to finish parts. 