Everyone Is Talking About Digital Transformation  It seems like everyone in the manufacturing world is  talking about digital transformation – and a lot of plant executives are  rolling their eyes because it sounds like it’s disruptive, expensive and one  more thing to do. In the industrial arena, where the brain trust is walking out  the door every day and not being replaced, the supply chain remains  challenging, cybersecurity threats creep up, and keeping profitability, quality  and productivity high is job one, the very idea of digital transformation can sound  overwhelming. Let’s challenge that mindset. First, focus on three key points:   With that in mind, let’s explore the journey an industrial  manufacturing plant may take as it goes digital. While we think of plants as  being high-tech, it’s actually remarkable how many processes are still recorded  and reported on paper. The tracking data from clean-in-place systems in food  manufacturing and pharmaceuticals, for example, is often recorded on forms by  workers. Likewise, energy monitoring, a process with the promise of substantial  cost savings, is frequently relegated to an inexact, time-consuming paper system. Another  example is the monitoring of compressed air on the factory floor. Meters or  dials at the compressor and at various points along the production line show  air pressure and air flow volume. A facilities technician walks around the  plant and manually records those readings into a paper-based log sheet. The  disadvantages of a paper-based logging system are substantial:   These  disadvantages in compressed air monitoring can be “transformed” through a step  in the digital continuum that we’ll call digitization. The system could be  digitized by installing sensors to measure air flow, pressure and volume. Data  could be automatically read and logged into a database every one second to  track an accurate view of the air system variables. The  advantages of a digital recording system are:   The  real transformation, however, is in the problems solved, the ability to use  workforce in more profitable tasks, the improved quality and safety, and the  potential cost savings. And these are all achieved in one relatively simple,  cost-effective transformation in the plant. The  change from various manual work processes into a single, fully-automated process  based on digital technology is the step that we’re calling digitalization. An  example could be the processes at the end of a production line. A group of  people could be used to pack and seal a box of finished products, then pass the  boxes down the line and stack them onto a pallet to add a final layer of  wrapping. On the other hand, this end-of-line process could be fully automated  with the use of conveyors, robotics, pneumatics and intelligent control systems.  This integrated system combines smart conveyors, loaders, palletizers and  wrapper machines. This has the advantage of working 24/7 at a speed and quality  that surpasses the manual system. Another  example could be the manual process of stitching specialized medical synthetic  materials to manufacture face masks. This manual process can be replaced with  an intelligent ultrasonic welder that replaces the manual tasks and that melts  and bonds synthetic material to produce a high-quality fabric weld. In  both examples, the digitalization, while solving a range of challenges, is a  subset of the entire plant. Still, it creates substantial impact on the bottom  line, with fewer workers required, greater speed and accuracy, faster  time-to-market and increased output. It’s a concrete and specific  transformation, making a cost/benefit analysis easy to accomplish. With today’s  technology, it can also be performed with minimum disruption to existing  systems and processes. Because  digital transformation is transformation enabled by digital technologies, each  of these steps has generated transformation of the business, as well as the  plant. The more a plant moves toward transformation of business outcomes, the  more there’s a change to work processes across departments and/or functions.  Digital transformation could also enable disruptive business models. But note,  this step arrived only after the processes of digitization and digitalization  are well along and already achieving transformative results. An  example of a digitally transformed process in a factory is the management of  machine downtime. If a machine breaks down in the factory today, the operator  might walk around the plant and look for the maintenance team. The maintenance  team promises to attend to the issue when they are free, however, they may  forget or get called somewhere else. The result is that production stops and no  one knows when the repair will be done. Digital  tools can change the way the production and maintenance teams work together. In  a digital solution, when there is a machine breakdown, the control system  immediately creates a digital downtime event. The software sends a message to  the maintenance team and a timer measures the time to acknowledge the breakdown  and then complete the repair. Escalation messages can be sent if the issue is  not acknowledged or if the downtime takes too long to repair. The maintenance  team can also then use the downtime reason information stored in the history to  analyze the top reasons for machine failure. This helps them to institute new  maintenance tasks or to request the production team to operate the machine  differently. The workflows are transformed by the use of the digital systems. So,  the keys to understanding digital transformation are to realize it’s a  continuum, focus on the exact challenges in each plant, and achieve goals and  solve problems along the way. Today’s automation systems are flexible and  scalable, with open communications and programming, and designed to be  implemented in a step-by-step procedure with minimal impact on existing  systems. Understanding this, the prospect of digital transformation becomes  manageable, affordable and a way to achieve today’s goals today, rather than in  some distant imaginary future.  Emerson’s Dan  Coetzee is a digital transformation expert. More information can be found at www.Emerson.com/PACSystems.   