Challenges, Opportunities of Intelligent Automation in 2023 Is automation the future of manufacturing? As if there was ever  any doubt, the past year affirmed that more manufacturers than ever before are  turning to automation to accelerate the production cycle, reduce costs, and  increase the bottom line. According to the ABI Research 2022  Trend Report, a total of 45,000 collaborative robots and 452,000 mobile robots were  shipped over the past year, increases of 65 percent and 51 percent respectively over 2021.  That’s on top of the latest data from World Robotics, which shows a record 2.7  million industrial robots now operating in factories around the world. With the global industrial automation market  expected to grow at a compound annual growth rate of nearly 10 percent over the next  seven years, reaching $395 billion by 2029, it’s safe to assume one trend which  emerged in 2022 will accelerate in the year ahead: Recognizing that the legacy systems on which  they began their automation journeys cost too much, in terms of  overhead expense and the demands placed on IT resources, expect manufacturers to  migrate their automation estates to next-generation automation platforms in order  to lower operational costs, leverage increased capabilities and features, and  enable scale. The emergence of automation in the cloud will  also play a key role in the year ahead. While there has been some hesitancy to  move beyond on-premise platforms, particularly on the part of larger manufacturers,  look for more companies to make the transition to the cloud and web-based  interfaces as they realize the benefits they offer. These include greater  agility and business scalability, faster deployment, easy cloud management, and  resilience. The leading beneficiaries of this shift to the  cloud are likely to be Microsoft and Automation Anywhere, both of which offer  cloud-native, low-code intelligent automation platforms. While unveiled in  2019, Microsoft Power Automate has matured and now provides a solution that is  simply better than much of the competition. Capable of delivering automation at  scale due to its ease of use and everyone’s familiarity with Microsoft  products, Power Automate offers increased compatibility with the Microsoft  stack that the vast majority of manufacturers already employ. Cloud-ready and a true intelligent automation  platform with an AI Builder capability and AI-enhanced workflows, Power  Automate also positions manufacturers to expand their automation practice  beyond RPA to the entire Power Platform. Using Power Virtual Agent, for  example, process automation can be broadened to business applications with  PowerApps and intelligent virtual agents. Although the pendulum has swung in favor of  cloud-native platforms, it’s too soon to count out the strength and market  footprint of UiPath. Traditionally viewed as the automation market leader,  UiPath continues to boast a strong platform and technology, albeit one that is  expensive and client-side. The same can be said of Blue Prism, another  legacy RPA leader with a strong platform. Technically complex, but favored by  highly skilled IT departments because of the freedom and flexibility it  provides, Blue Prism is not particularly accessible to the average business  user. With indications pointing to significant investments in research and  design to enhance the product, it will be interesting to see what Blue Prism  delivers in 2023. All of this suggests that automation in  manufacturing will only get bigger in the year ahead. Digital twins, already  widely used within the sector, will see increased application as more  manufacturers recognize the value in maintaining a digital representation of a  process or physical object that can be updated with real-time data to enhance  improvement efforts. So too will artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning  (ML), both of which will grow in terms of importance as manufacturers seek to  automate more complex, end-to-end processes. With a focus on improving overall efficiency  while freeing up human workers to handle more complex tasks, look for manufacturers  to make increased use of collaborative robots (cobots) and drones in 2023. Designed  to work alongside humans, cobots are proving to be particularly effective at  tasks such as quality control and assembly line work. They also can be  programmed to work 24/7, which can be instrumental in increasing production  levels without a loss in quality. Drones, on the other hand, are being employed  in inventory management and product delivery. The wild card in 2023 will be the anticipated  global recession analysts predict will hit early in the New Year. If a  recession does occur, look for the exponential growth automation is already experiencing  to be hyper-charged as manufacturers try to deal with a contracted workforce  brought on by forced cost reductions.  Irina Lunin is the Vice President of Research &  Development at Blueprint Software Systems. For more information, visit https://www.blueprintsys.com/out       