First 3D Robot Camera Optimized for the Outdoors Stereolabs announced the launch of the ZED-X, the first stereo camera designed for robotic navigation and process automation in tough indoor and outdoor environments. By fusing 3D spatial data from multiple ZED-X stereo cameras, Stereolabs’ perception platform allows robots to navigate and detect obstacles in any complex environment while being much more affordable and easier to install than Lidar-based alternatives.  Powered and supported by Stereolabs’ extensive software ecosystem, the ZED-X unlocks the potential for rapid commercial deployments of robots in agriculture, construction, logistics and last-mile delivery. With its IP66-rated aluminum enclosure, GMSL2 connection and native multi-camera synchronization, the ZED-X is built for production-scale deployments of autonomous robots under the most rugged conditions. With the ZED SDK and the ZED Hub multi-camera control platform, the ZED-X delivers advanced capabilities for 3D perception, including 360-degree depth sensing, localization, object detection and skeleton tracking. The ZED-X camera is an ideal fit for manufacturers ready to mass produce robots for industrial and outdoor environments. Available in two form factors, the ZED-X and the ZED-X Mini, the stereo cameras provide 3D perception at a range of .2 to 20 meters for navigation and up-close at a range of .08 to 12.5 meters for object detection during core process automation. For example, an autonomous tractor can use ZED-X for safe navigation and ZED-X Mini for crop detection. ZED-X standout features include: Optimized for use with NVIDIA’s Jetson AGX Orin supercomputer, the ZED-X can be quickly integrated into an intelligent end-to-end workflow, accelerating deployment from the prototype stage to production-scale implementation. Each Jetson module can control four ZED-X cameras, reducing cost, weight and onboard space requirements. Stereolabs In conjunction with the release of the ZED-X, Stereolabs is also launching a new multi-camera management platform, ZED Hub, and a new 4.0 version of the ZED SDK. This combined solution enables a 360-degree surround view around the robot, which is necessary for safe navigation. Users can now fuse data from multiple cameras automatically, eliminating the challenges that previously made this a complex, time-consuming process. “Today’s robots need to navigate in harsh environments and respond quickly as they operate. Building an affordable, industrial-grade surround 3D perception solution is critical to production-scale deployment of next-generation robotics and smart analytics,” said Cecile Schmollgruber, CEO of Stereolabs. “Our camera-based solution dramatically simplifies 360-degree spatial perception, and is backed by an ecosystem of tools to integrate and control them at a price point that makes it easy to add 3D vision to any machine.” The ZED-X is available now for preorder at $599, and the ZED-X Mini at $549 per camera. The ZED SDK 4.0 and ZED Hub management software are available immediately and are compatible with the entire ZED range of cameras. globenewswire.com 