Overcoming Perceived Barriers to Automation Companies are showing a  growing interest in robotics. And although interest is high and  companies expect to see greater use of robotics, many business leaders are in the  dark about the impact robotics will have on their operations. A 2020 survey  by Tech Republic found that: Vecna saw a similar response  at the MODEX 2022 show, with thousands of attendees visiting its booth to learn  more about Autonomous Mobile Robots (AMR) and orchestration software. An  informal poll found that only about 5 percent of attendees have robots in production,  and while they clearly wanted to explore automation, many didn’t know where to  start. The interest extends beyond  just the materials handling and logistics markets—enterprises, retailers,  grocers, farmers and more want to add automation to their roadmap and human  resources (HR) plans. But they see critical barriers in their way. A good way to get past those  barriers is to address common myths and misconceptions about  robotics. Myth: Robots will replace humans. Reality: It's not a zero-sum game. The problem  with this mentality is that it assumes a finite number of jobs are available –  there are not. The workforce is a constantly evolving ecosystem with openings  ebbing and flowing. More often than not, automation helps streamline  repetitive, dirty and dangerous tasks humans traditionally perform, increase  competitiveness, and create new opportunities for growth and job creation. Myth: Robots have cognitive reasoning. Reality: Robots can only “learn” what they’re programmed to  learn, and can’t perform new tasks until those tasks are programmed into them. Myth: Automation is too disruptive and too expensive to  adopt Reality: The cost curve has inverted when comparing automation  vs. the status quo. Labor has become scarce and expensive, and automation technologies  have become much more accessible through innovations in LIDAR technology, 5G  and robots-as-a-service pricing. Automation can start with smaller workflows  and scale up or out over time. Once they get past the common  misconceptions, many companies still don’t know how to get started on  automation. The best thing to do is to start small and scale as needed. The  following are the goals that should be accomplished and the timeframe to make  them happen. Week 2—Assess Month 2—Plan Month 3—Start Month 6—Deploy Month 8 –  Iterate Month 12—Scale Automation is on the verge of  expanding exponentially. More mobile robots than ever joined the workforce last  year, and the material handling mobile robot market is set to explode, with  Interact Analysis forecasting fivefold growth. But growth isn’t limited to  warehouse automation. Enterprises across a range of sectors are investing  heavily in automation, from autonomous vehicles to healthcare. Forrester  predicts the robot process automation (RPA) software and services market, which  relieves humans of painstaking, repetitive tasks, could reach $25  billion by 2025. And Forrester said companies are also now looking toward  more advanced artificial intelligence (AI) automated systems. As an entrepreneur, I’ve seen  unique opportunities in agriculture and food service, such as Twisted Fields’  use of Acorn. This precision farming rover that can help grow healthier food,  inspect crops, seed, weed and harvest while helping to fight climate change. Opportunities abound as  market forces create the need for greater automation and a constant stream of  advances in technology increase its accessibility and improves ROI.  Organizations simply need to get started. As we look toward the future,  vendors, end-users and non-profit groups such as the MassRobotics need to work together to  push the industry along with standards, use cases and real-world, factual  information—as opposed to hype. This collaboration will remove the perceived  barriers to automation and help organizations enhance robotics’ future.  In the end, robots are here to  help humans because making life better for humans is the point.  That  includes better stewardship over our resources and automation is our best tool  to do that.  Daniel Theobald is the founder of Vecna Robotics. 