Tesla Robot Walks, Waves, But Doesn't Impress  DETROIT (AP) — An early prototype of Tesla Inc.'s proposed Optimus humanoid robot slowly and awkwardly walked onto a stage, turned, and  waved to a cheering crowd at the company's artificial intelligence event  Friday. But the basic tasks by the robot with exposed wires and  electronics — as well as a later, next generation version that had to be  carried onstage by three men — was a long way from CEO Elon Musk's  vision of a human-like robot that can change the world. Musk told  the crowd, many of whom might be hired by Tesla, that the robot can do  much more than the audience saw Friday. He said it is also delicate and  “we just didn’t want it to fall on its face.” Musk suggested that  the problem with flashy robot demonstrations is that the robots are  “missing a brain” and don’t have the intelligence to navigate  themselves, but he gave little evidence Friday that Optimus was any more  intelligent than robots developed by other companies and researchers. The  demo didn’t impress AI researcher Filip Piekniewski, who tweeted it was  “next level cringeworthy” and a “complete and utter scam.” He said it  would be “good to test falling, as this thing will be falling a lot.” “None  of this is cutting edge,” tweeted robotics expert Cynthia Yeung. “Hire  some PhDs and go to some robotics conferences @Tesla.” Yeung also  questioned why Tesla opted for its robot to have a human-like hand with  five fingers, noting “there’s a reason why” warehouse robots developed  by startup firms use pinchers with two or three fingers or vacuum-based  grippers. Musk said that Friday night was the first time the early  robot walked onstage without a tether. Tesla's goal, he said, is to  make an “extremely capable” robot in high volumes — possibly millions of  them — at a cost that could be less than a car, that he guessed would  be less than $20,000. Tesla showed a video of the robot, which  uses artificial intelligence that Tesla is testing in its “Full  Self-Driving” vehicles, carrying boxes and placing a metal bar into what  appeared to be a factory machine. But there was no live demonstration  of the robot completing the tasks. Employees told the crowd in  Palo Alto, California, as well as those watching via livestream, that  they have been working on Optimus for six to eight months. People can  probably buy an Optimus “within three to five years,” Musk said. Employees  said Optimus robots would have four fingers and a thumb with a  tendon-like system so they could have the dexterity of humans. The  robot is backed by giant artificial intelligence computers that track  millions of video frames from “Full Self-Driving” autos. Similar  computers would be used to teach tasks to the robots, they said. Experts  in the robotics field were skeptical that Tesla is anywhere near close  to rolling out legions of human-like home robots that can do the “useful  things” Musk wants them to do — say, make dinner, mow the lawn, keep  watch on an aging grandmother. “When you’re trying to develop a  robot that is both affordable and useful, a humanoid kind of shape and  size is not necessarily the best way,” said Tom Ryden, executive  director of the nonprofit startup incubator Mass Robotics. Tesla isn’t the first car company to experiment with humanoid robots. Honda more than two decades ago unveiled Asimo,  which resembled a life-size space suit and was shown in a  carefully-orchestrated demonstration to be able to pour liquid into a  cup. Hyundai also owns a collection of humanoid and animal-like robots  through its 2021 acquisition of robotics firm Boston Dynamics. Ford has  partnered with Oregon startup Agility Robotics, which makes robots with  two legs and two arms that can walk and lift packages. Ryden said  carmakers’ research into humanoid robotics can potentially lead to  machines that can walk, climb and get over obstacles, but impressive  demos of the past haven't led to an “actual use scenario” that lives up  to the hype. “There’s a lot of learning that they’re getting from  understanding the way humanoids function,” he said. “But in terms of  directly having a humanoid as a product, I’m not sure that that’s going  to be coming out anytime soon.” Critics also said years ago that  Musk and Tesla wouldn't be able to build a profitable new car company  that used batteries for power rather than gasoline. Tesla is  testing “Full Self-Driving” vehicles on public roads, but they have to  be monitored by selected owners who must be ready to intervene at all  times. The company says it has about 160,000 vehicles equipped with the  test software on the road today. Critics have said the Teslas,  which rely on cameras and powerful computers to drive by themselves,  don't have enough sensors to drive safely. Tesla's less capable  Autopilot driver-assist system, with the same camera sensors, is under  investigation by U.S. safety regulators for braking for no reason and repeatedly running into emergency vehicles with flashing lights parked along freeways. In 2019, Musk promised a fleet of autonomous robotaxis would be in use by the end of 2020. They are still being tested. 