LoadMate Fills Gap Between Cobots & Industrial Robots Absolute Machine Tools will co-exhibit the LoadMate Plus Machine Tending Robotics Cell with partner Mitsubishi Electric Automation (MEA) at IMTS 2022 in Booth #338519. Designed and built as a joint project between MEA and Absolute to fill the gap between collaborative robots and industrial robot automation cells, the Mitsubishi LoadMate Plus Machine Tending Robotics Cell is a compact heavy-duty portable robotic cell that can handle payloads up to 20 kg with reaches up to 1,388 mm. It can be easily integrated in one step to CNC machines using MEA’s Direct Robot Control function. The automated robot machine tending cell will be demonstrated live with the Absolute Machine Tools Seiki KT-420L CNC Mill/Drill/Tap Center. Capable of loading, unloading and palletizing parts in any low-to-high volume mix application, the LoadMate Plus plug and play robotic cell offers the high strength of industrial robots in a safe, contained cell. Several Mitsubishi vertical robot models, including all RV07, RV-8, RV-13 and RV-20 series, have been tested and proven within the cell’s enclosure. Its portability makes it easy to add an automation function to a variety of CNC applications increasing throughput and saving valuable time. At IMTS 2022, the demonstration cell is intended to show attendees how affordable and simple automation can be achieved. The Seiki KT-420L is built standard with Mitsubishi M80A control with dedicated CNC CPU enabling rapid processing speeds and assuring seamless integration with the LoadMate Plus cell and robotics. Featuring a moving column/fixed table design with rotary pallet changer, the machine’s built-in rotary-type APC unit is located at the front of the machine for easy access. The machine exchanges fixed tables in 4.5 seconds using a hydraulic cylinder to rotate the pallet and a hirth coupling hydraulic clamping mechanism to clamp the pallet in place without lifting for exceptional repeatability. The Mitsubishi LoadMate Plus Machine Tending Robotics Cell can be easily integrated in one step to CNC machines using MEA’s Direct Robot Control function.Absolute Machine Tools 