What’s All the Hype Around Hyperautomation? We are  at an inflection point. A game-changing, jump-the-shark moment when  manufacturing organizations will no longer be satisfied with the process  capabilities of the past because newer, more efficient, more predictive process  automation technologies are available. The  research firm Gartner, Inc. coined the term “hyperautomation” to describe the  phenomenon, but other analysts also point to this new phase of process  automation. IDC calls it Intelligent Process Automation, and Forrester Research  refers to Digital Process Automation. To define it, Gartner says that “hyperautomation deals with the  application of advanced technologies, including artificial intelligence (AI)  and machine learning (ML) to increasingly automate processes and augment  humans.” Hyperautomation  is all about connecting people, process, equipment and the job to be done, and  reaching a more perfect process efficiency to improve your manufacturing. It’s  no small movement. The market for hyperautomation-enabling technologies is  projected to reach $596 billion in 2022, up nearly 24 percent from $482 billion in  2020. The  pandemic quarantine made consumers more open to all things digital. It accelerated the adoption and implementation of  hyperautomation and many other technologies that would have taken years to  become mainstream. It won’t be long before  hyperautomation-enabling technologies such as robotic process automation (RPA),  low-code application platforms (LCAP), AI and virtual assistants become a “condition  of survival” for manufacturing operations. Think  about process in its purest form. It’s a series of actions or steps that link  people, systems and even equipment to achieve a desired goal. Hyperautomation  leverages technologies to drive efficiency throughout the process through  automation of repetitive tasks, improved communication between the actors of a  process and improved end user experience. There’s  no single technology that defines ‘hyperautomation’; it’s a collection of  leading technologies working together to get the job done in the most efficient  way possible. Here are some of the technologies associated with  hyperautomation. For  manufacturing, it’s the combination of these and many other technologies that  come together to allow the passing of information seamlessly. Even complex  business processes can seek new levels of efficiency. Hyperautomation sets the  framework for the integration of better data, leading to better decision making  and better insights. When  looking at that big picture, identify communication silos that need to  collaborate with each other using manual processes today, like spreadsheets or  phone calls. These areas would benefit from embedded collaboration or real-time  systems integration. Global  manufacturers are facing ever-increasing disruption, often caused by forces  beyond their control. In order to survive and thrive, manufacturers must be  able to innovate and change business models at unprecedented rates of speed.  Leveraging hyperautomation is one of the steps to becoming an adaptive  manufacturing enterprise.   Tony Winter is the Chief Technology Officer of QAD. 