Types of AGVs — and How To Choose the Right Ones for Your Company Automated guided vehicles (AGVs) are driverless vehicles that  use computer software and other navigation technologies to determine their  positioning and movement. They can transport various materials and finished goods within a  manufacturing facility or warehouses. Basically, if you are interested in  digitalizing your material handling system, then this technology is  something you are looking for. There has been an increasing adoption rate of AGVs across  various industries. According to Fortune Business Insights, AGVs global market size was $1.83  billion Uin 2020. The market is predicted to grow at a CAGR of 9.3  percent and reach 3.72 billion U.S. dollars by 2028. Automated Guided Carts are mobile platform robots characterized  by low-profile, small chassis and engage shelves, trolleys, or carts from  underneath. An AGC, also referred to as an Under Ride, has minimal features and  is the most basic type of AGV. Their navigation systems can range from simple magnetic tapes to  complex sensor-based systems that rely on artificial intelligence to navigate.  AGCs are easy to install, low cost, flexible, and enhance safety making them ideal for automating  non-value-added tasks. They eliminate the need for humans to push carts and  trolleys around. There are two types of AGCs, distinguished by how they engage  the load. These are AGCs with pin hooks and AGCs with lifting devices. AGCs with pin hooks rely on pin hooks to engage trolleys of  carts with wheels. It engages the cart and pulls it while the cart’s wheels  support the load weight. In addition, they are lighter and allow decent towing  rates with limited power since the cart supports the weight. On the other hand, AGCs with lifting devices lift the entire  load and perform more advanced navigation tasks. AGCs can effectively transport compact loads and have wide  applications in hospitals, e-commerce, and warehousing. Towing AGVs are also known as AGV tugger vehicles and are designed  for towing carts. They have greater throughput than AGCs because they can haul  multiple carts simultaneously. They are an excellent option for intra-logistics  optimization because they offer exceptional transport capacity at a low cost. Tugger vehicles pull loads of tons reducing the risks of using  large and heavy equipment. These AGVs can move loads of up to 50,000 pounds.  Heavy-duty towing AGVs can pull sub-assemblies, equipment, machine components,  and materials that would be unsafe for manual labor. The main applications of towing AGVs are the automotive and  manufacturing industries. They feed production lines with materials and assist  with finished goods removal in manufacturing industries. The automotive  industry uses tugger vehicles to supply parts to the assembly lines. For  example, automated guided vehicle systems  are in use at Audi,  and they are used for delivering materials and components for production just  in time and exactly where they are needed. Even though towing AGVs have numerous benefits, there are  several drawbacks to be concerned about. Tugger vehicles cannot hook carts  autonomously and have complex hooking and unhooking techniques. There are also  safety concerns around towing AGVs because they consist of several carts  independent of the locomotive. Automated forklifts are mechanized forklifts that can place  materials, retrieve stock, and stack or place pallets. They supply materials to  computerized machines and take finished goods to the storage or for shipment.  Heavy-duty automated forklifts can transport heavy loads such as steel coils,  vehicles, large paper rolls, and engines over any distance. The key benefit of automated forklifts is replacing forklift  operators who need training and certification. They can also be economical by  reducing labor costs. Automated forklifts are primarily used in warehouses and manufacturing  facilities. There are several types of automated forklifts which include: Unit load AGVs handle discrete loads like individual items or a  single unit like a tote or pallet containing multiple items. They usually are  equipped with roll conveyors. In addition, unit load handlers can navigate  safely and fast in production facilities and warehouses. They handle loads from automated storage and retrieval  systems (AS/RS),  stands, conveyors, and end-of-line equipment. They are suitable for delivering  packages, which may be heavy and hazardous for manual labor, to predetermined  locations within a facility. Unit load AGVs have wide applications in the Food and Beverage  industry. They offer an efficient and flexible solution for transferring  materials to and from fixed conveyors. Unit load AGVs with in-built conveyors  are ideal for increasing the functionality of conventional conveyor systems. Facility managers can equip unit load handlers with automatic  transfer systems to transport and shift the load. These systems include: roller conveyors, lift platforms, chain conveyors, shuttle systems and belt conveyors. There are many types of AGVs with different applications in  various industries. All these types are critical in quality materials handling  and none is better than the other. Every facility has its own ideal AGV type  that will depend on user requirements and expectations. Some facilities need custom material handling carts and there are companies that can  provide this kind of equipment. The first step to choosing the right AGV is conducting a needs  and requirements assessment on your facility. Once you have identified the  tasks you want your AGV to handle, you can choose an AGV that effectively  handles them. The right AGV for you will also depend on your budget and the  technical skills required to manage and maintain the system.  Luke Goodwin is an experienced  marketing manager with a demonstrated history of working in the logistics and  supply chain industry. Currently, he works as a CMO at FlexQube.  To learn more about FlexQube and see more articles from the industry you can  visit their news website.   