The Role of the CEO in Digital Transformation The COVID-19 pandemic prompted  manufacturers to accelerate their digital transformation and Industry 4.0  programs. Ultimately, these efforts will  provide much greater visibility, resiliency, efficiency and flexibility,  enabling them to compete more effectively for business. But the heart of every  digital transformation is change management, and the key component of change  management is a company's employees. If employees do not follow the new way of  working, then all these efforts will be in vain. If employees are to go along with the new  program, they must understand and believe in the benefits it will produce. These  benefits must be both organizational and personal, because if they don’t  believe that the new way of doing things is better for everyone, and if that  change isn’t properly managed, they will likely fall back on what they are used  to and what is comfortable. Manufacturing CEOs must take the lead  when it comes to change management, and especially for a change as large as  digital transformation. Businesses are always going through  constant change. Even if the organization isn’t undergoing digital  transformation, a CEO will need to deal with change and change management on an  almost daily basis. But digital transformation accelerates the pace of change,  so it requires special attention. One of the biggest mistakes that a CEO  makes when implementing significant change throughout the organization is to  take a top-down approach. In today’s world where manufacturing organizations  have not only been transformed by Kanban, Lean and other methodologies,  employees are also much more vested in the outcome of key initiatives and have  more decision making mandates in the day-to-day operations. In an environment where any factory  employee can stop the line if they see a flaw, changes from the top that don’t  include their input will receive a cold reception. Instead, the CEO needs to ensure that the  change process achieves buy-in from everyone, and the best way to do that is  to ensure that everyone participates and contributes. For instance, if a new  technology will require changes to processes on the shop floor, everyone affected  needs to have a role to play in the the change process, starting from the  evaluation phase. Let’s say that the manufacturer has been operating using  disconnected, custom-built systems, and the C-suite determines that the  organization needs to standardize on a modern ERP platform. The employees who  will be most affected by the new system should be part of the evaluation  process. And when the system is  chosen, employees need to have some influence in designing the parts of the change  that affects their work. This approach will also contribute in building a  company culture that will not only embrace change, but initiate and drive it. Communication is the key to change  management, but CEOs need to remember that good communication is more about  talking and listening than it is telling others what to do. Of course, the CEO won’t manage these  changes on a day-to-day basis. Instead, the CEO will work with the COO and  other senior leaders to ensure that all units of the business are working off  the same playbook. And while this can feel frustrating, it is one of the most  important functions. It is in these moments that a CEO ensures that the right  message is passed on, and that there is mutual understanding of what needs to  be done between business functions. That role of ensuring interpretation is  what keeps an entire organization working and moving forward together, because  it provides visibility across the entire organization. It enables one to deftly  explain to different teams why things have to happen in a particular way, and  in a manner others can understand and get behind. The CEO or COO steps in when things are  not lining up, asks why and then works with the teams to find a solution to  keep the project moving forward. It boils down to ensuring that  miscommunications are identified and resolved. This also means that a CEO needs  to be tough when individual priorities and objectives conflict with the  company’s overall strategy and direction. When managing a digital transformation,  if the CEO feels like all they are doing is making sure that people are talking  to each other, looking at the same information and pulling in the same  direction, then they’re probably doing their  job well. Without that communication and  shared understanding, any disconnects will become bigger cracks that can  fragment the business and destroy productivity and profitability. Again, as an organization prepares for  change and, then, executes on it, it’s absolutely crucial that everyone knows  they have a stake and a say, and that even if their input isn’t followed,  everyone understands why a different path was chosen. So, as manufacturers undergo digital  transformation, CEOs cannot neglect change management. They must not only  communicate where the company is going and why change is necessary, but must  also involve the entire company in the process. Everyone will then work  together to succeed.  Jaco Maritz is the chief operations office at SYSPRO. 