What If All Digital Transformation Could Be Completed Instantly? The concept is not new, but that doesn't mean the story can't evolve. To say the global socio-economic environment has shifted in the last two years would be a dramatic understatement. But along with the new challenges that a pandemic has created, including supply chain disruptions, inflation, etc., new strategies with far-reaching impacts have also been brought to the forefront. We recently sat down with Keith Higgins, vice president of digital transformation at Rockwell Automation, to get his thoughts on the challenges and opportunities that now confront the industrial sector. Jeff Reinke, editorial director: How do you think advanced manufacturing  technologies have helped manufacturers either preserve or drive  growth over the past year? Keith Higgins, VP of Digital Transformation - Rockwell Automation: Over the past year, we have seen manufacturers  prioritize several technologies for various use cases to drive growth: Digital thread helped connect business processes  across an organization – from product and process design to operations – all  with real-time insights to enable agile decision-making, accelerated innovation  and increased quality and efficiency. Digital thread serves as a record of the  evolution of an organization's entire operations – physical machines,  manufacturing processes, automation code and maintenance steps – providing  visibility into their past, present and future state. Digital thread also allowed  manufacturers to increase efficiency by managing their supply chain and enabled control and eligibility  to be as responsive as they could for products and services. Digital thread  also helped manufacturers pivot production lines to answer accelerated demand  for products, such as PPE and hand sanitizer. Augmented reality (AR) helped manufacturers train  and assist workers remotely to adapt to travel restrictions and  pivots in production to address market demands for protective equipment and  healthcare tools. AR also helped re-skill employees for new operations and other  critical areas such as safety, maintenance and quality assurance. Connected operations enabled a new level of  equipment monitoring and assessments, which helped manufacturers  maximize their existing infrastructure in a time where capital expenditure  management was a priority. Going digital allowed  manufacturers to upgrade programs and systems to maximize production and adjust  manufacturing capabilities as needed. AI allows for better control,  visibility and volatility, which helped manufacturers enable more remote operations amid the pandemic. Enterprises that leveraged AI had a critical advantage. As AI powered autonomous operations,  enterprises leveraging the technology were able to operate more safely and  efficiently. JR: Despite a growing number of manufacturing jobs,  there seems to be fewer total and qualified applicants. What are your thoughts  on the number of unfilled positions and the growing skills gap? KH: While U.S. manufacturing  activity has surged, the industry has more than half a  million job openings, which could ultimately cost the US economy up to $1 trillion by 2030. Furthermore, about 70 percent of  manufacturers say the biggest impacts of robotics on the workforce will be an increased need for talent to manage a more automated,  flexible production environment that will include more robotics and their operating systems. As the manufacturing workforce ages, new tools  are needed to make the remaining team as versatile as possible.  Talent acquisition is becoming a priority to attract the next generation of  workers with improved human infrastructure applications. Leveraging  remote training tools, such as augmented reality (AR) and 3D-based work  instructions, allows workers to train with experts remotely and optimize  capture and delivery. As augmented workers are the next generation of the  manufacturing workforce, these technologies, including AI and autonomous  operation, attract new talent and improve machine integration. Using advanced  technologies to train workers enables them to analyze performance in real-time,  troubleshoot issues more quickly, improve productivity and avoid significant  downtime for unforeseen repairs. This will ultimately make the manufacturing  workforce more connected and data-driven, narrowing the skills gap while  avoiding safety and compliance risks. JR: How do you think supply chain  management has changed over the last 18 months? KH: As manufacturers need to increase production and improve  resilience, while driving efficiency and compliance, companies are increasingly  seeking to upgrade their production systems with modern, cloud-based  manufacturing execution systems that are easy to implement, use, and maintain. Because  of this, manufacturers are favoring solutions to connect, automate, track and  analyze their operations and supply chains. What’s more, strong partnerships between  manufacturers and suppliers are critical to plan accordingly around  availability of materials and people, as we continue to see supply chains  stressed. Over the past 18 months, we’ve witnessed increased supply chain  disruption leading to long lead times, material shortages, rising prices and  transportation difficulties. By adopting a stronger digital transformation  strategy amid the COVID-19 pandemic, manufacturers were able to successfully  meet their productivity goals and create a competitive advantage through their  supply chain. JR: The  COVID situation has led many manufacturers to take a hard look at re-shoring at  least some of their production capabilities. Do you think we’ll see a  legitimate surge in U.S.-based manufacturing as a result? KH: Amid the pandemic, it became clear that there  were many global supply chain dependencies. Because of this, companies are revisiting  strategies for their manufacturing operations.  Manufacturers are now  seeing how important it is to have strategies with less dependencies in  place, and we will see how these strategies play out in the coming months. JR: If  you could provide the U.S. industrial sector with one gift, one wish granted,  one super power, etc. what would it be? KH: The power for enterprises to fully  digitally transform operations in an instant. As a result, enterprises can  reach their  full potential with faster innovation, more operational efficiency and the best  possible workforce. 