Five Trends for Automation and Control in 2022 Thomas Jefferson once said, “I like the dreams of the future  better than the history of the past.” Given what we have all experienced over  the past 2+ years, I tend to agree with Mr. Jefferson. Looking ahead in 2022,  here are five trends I predict for the world of automation and control. Over the past two years, we have seen everything from runs on  toilet paper to an extensive semiconductor chip shortage. The chip shortage has  led to a massive bottleneck in manufacturing. From cars to consumer  electronics, all manufacturers are feeling the pressure. The majority of the  world’s semiconductors are currently manufactured in China and Taiwan.  Increases in demand, supply chain issues, and raw material shortages have all  contributed to an increase in the number of manufacturers looking to reshore  their factories in North America. A recent trade deal between the United  States, Mexico, and Canada has further enticed manufacturers to bring factories  back to North America. Reshoring will increase the demand for automation, as  manufacturers will need to incorporate additional automated processes to remain  competitive against low-cost labor markets and compensate for employee  shortages. According to a recent Reuters article, robot sales in 2021 hit a  record as more manufacturers examined the potential to ramp up production using  robotics. From January through November, 29,000 robots were ordered at a value  of $1.48B, a 37 percent increase over the same period in 2020. News reports of ransomware strikes against American  utilities have highlighted a need for increased cybersecurity. Last year,  Colonial Pipeline was infiltrated by a group of Russian hackers via the VPN  network that employees used to remotely access their system. The ransom was  paid with bitcoin, and since then hackers have become even bolder, continuing  to attack infrastructure, manufacturers, and private citizens. It is  increasingly imperative that companies implement a very strong and agile cybersecurity plan to protect their assets and operations. 3D printing has taken the world by storm in recent years.  With advancements in tooling and filaments, the technology has come a long way  since the concept of 3D printing first originated in the 1940’s. Today, we see  3D printing being used as additive manufacturing, creating industrial  prototypes faster and with higher accuracy. As the list of printable materials  continues to grow across all mediums, companies need to ask themselves what mix  of traditional manufacturing vs. additive manufacturing makes sense, and how  fast should they integrate the new technology. Some hearing aid manufacturers in the  United States have transitioned from traditional to additive manufacturing in less  than two years, increasing manufacturing flexibility and allowing greater  customization. Predictive maintenance has been around for a very long time,  but in recent years there has been an enormous increase in the need to collect  data from every aspect of the industrial manufacturing process. Every step in a  manufactured product’s journey is analyzed. Sensors monitor vibrations,  temperatures, noise, humidity, and so on, to decrease waste and loss by  ensuring that a line is working at peak efficiency. Condition monitoring  systems report when a bearing or a motor is reaching the end of its life cycle. Gone are the days of sending a technician onto the floor to perform routine  scheduled maintenance on a motor just because the calendar says to do so. With  the ability to monitor every aspect of that same motor’s performance, we now  know exactly when it will fail and when we should order ahead to replace it.  This means fewer line down situations or reductions in line production,  minimizing loss to plant throughput. Manufacturers are far more environmentally conscious than  they were just 10 years ago. Much of this has been driven by consumer buying  habits. Consumers today are far more likely to purchase products that are made  of sustainable materials from reputable manufacturers who take their  environmental responsibilities seriously. To further this trend, the higher  costs of energy and resources are driving manufacturers to adopt more  environmentally sound processes. By adopting a total lifecycle view of the  entire manufacturing process, the product itself, and the resources and raw  materials, manufacturers help minimize negative effects on the environment. As we embark on another trip around the sun, the new year is  full of promise. The future of automation and control is brimming with new  opportunities to develop superior processes and deliver better products to  customers. With a lot of effort and a little luck, these trends of 2022 could  allow “the dreams of the future” to become reality, improving the way we work  and live for years to come.   Eric J. Halvorson is Partnership Marketing Manager II –  Strategic Programs at Digi-Key  Electronics. Digi-Key  is a leading distributor of  electronic components and automation products 