Motion Debuts Motion Automation Intelligence as New Business Brand BIRMINGHAM, AL — Motion Industries, Inc., a distributor of maintenance, repair  and operation replacement parts, and a premier provider of industrial technology  solutions, announced Feb. 2 the formation of its automation business brand: Motion  Automation Intelligence (MotionAi). The new brand is now represented by the logo: Comprising its highly specialized value-add engineering divisions—including AMMC, Axis,  Braas, F&L, Integro, Kaman Automation and Numatic Engineering—MotionAi is a hi-tech  automation solutions provider for industrial automation and emerging automation  technologies with locations across the United States. Focused disciplines are robotics,  motion control, machine vision, digital networking/IIoT, industrial framing, pneumatics and  custom mechatronic systems. Industries served include semiconductor, pharmaceutical,  medical, logistics, automotive and aerospace (along with many others) while applying the  highest quality products and services with its engineered systems. WATCH: 5 Minutes With ID: Motion President Randy Breaux Talks KDG Acquisition - published Feb. 1 “We approach each opportunity as consultants, then engineer the best solutions based on our  customers’ unique needs,” said Aurelio Banda, Motion’s Group Vice President of Automation.  “We partner closely with suppliers and customers on automation applications and product  development projects to create a vital supplier-customer link. Our services range from the most  simple to quite comprehensive, and there is a unique depth of talent in our group that succeeds  across disciplines.” “The MotionAi team comprises the best of the best,” said Motion’s President, Randy Breaux.  “Their top-level expertise provides each customer with the most effective solutions to meet  business demands. Automation is the present and future, and we are excited to formally launch  this new initiative and offer the latest innovations.” The new website featuring MotionAi’s full capabilities can be explored at ai.motion.com Rebranding from Motion Industries at the start of 2021, Motion was No. 3 on Industrial Distribution's 2021 Big 50 List. With annual sales of over $6 billion, Motion is a leading industrial distributor of more than 10  million items, including, bearings; mechanical power transmission products; electrical and  industrial automation components; hose, belting, and gaskets; hydraulic and pneumatic  components; process pumps; industrial and safety products; seals and accessories; and  material handling products and solutions. To increase customers’ productivity, the company  offers many value-added services, including engineering, fabrication, repair, and Industry 4.0  solutions across these product groups. In addition, Motion Automation Intelligence (MotionAi)  and Mi Conveyance Solutions were formed to offer a wide range of specialized, related products  and innovative solutions for many applications. Motion North America expanded its footprint in 2022 to include Kaman Distribution Group and  now has over 700 branch and service center locations and 20 distribution centers. Mi Asia  Pacific has 150 locations and nine distribution centers in Australasia. Motion serves more than  170,000 customers in the equipment and machinery, food and beverage, pulp and paper, iron  and steel, chemical, mining and aggregate, petrochemical, automotive, semiconductor, wood  and lumber, medical and pharmaceutical industries. 