$2M boost: Novarc Technologies gains Canadian government backing to market welding robots worldwide The Government of Canada is offering $2,065,000 in funding to Novarc Technologies, a North Vancouver-based full-stack robotics company, to help it market welding robots worldwide. The government is making investments in British Columbia to fuel economic growth and support high-tech manufacturers to increase their global sales. Across the province, innovative companies are creating technologies to solve the challenges manufacturers are facing across the globe. According to a press statement from the Pacific Economic Development Agency of Canada (PacifiCan),  Novarc Technologies is developing a unique automation solution to help solve the global manufacturing bottleneck. Novarc’s Spool Welding Robot (SWR) is the world’s first of its kind in pipe welding machines and applications giving traditional industries a route to automation, explains the agency. On 16 June, the Honourable Jonathan Wilkinson, Minister of Natural Resources and Member of Parliament for North Vancouver, on behalf of the Honourable Harjit S. Sajjan, Minister of International Development and Minister responsible for PacifiCan, announced the funding for this company. “We are excited and grateful to receive this funding as we accelerate our growth to reach new international markets with our automated welding solutions. The funds will allow us to amp up our sales and marketing efforts, and expand our team with the talent and resources required to provide support in these new markets,” said Soroush Karimzadeh, CEO of Novarc Technologies. Welding is needed to build key infrastructure, in a variety of industrial settings, such as hospitals, wastewater treatment plants, and shipyards. As such, the need for prefabrication has grown up to 20 percent for pipe welding, explains the press statement. Novarc’s solution automates the manufacturing process of welding – allowing welders of all skill levels to work collaboratively with the robot – increasing safety and productivity up to five times in carbon steel pipe welding and up to 12 times on stainless steel pipes. This funding, which is being provided through PacifiCan’s Business Scale-up and Productivity program, will help Novarc continue to grow. The company has already installed spool welding robot units in North America, Australia, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Germany, Saudi Arabia, and China and has plans for further expansion. This investment is expected to support 53 new jobs at Novarc Technologies and generate increased revenues. 