OTTO Motors’ CEO Matt Rendall among finalists for EY Entrepreneur Of The Year 2023 EY Canada has named Matt Rendall, chief executive officer and co-founder of OTTO Motors, as a finalist for the Ernst & Young Entrepreneur Of The Year 2023 award. This program celebrates entrepreneurs whose unbounded ambitions deliver innovation, growth and prosperity that transform our world. Starting over fourteen years ago, Matt Rendall grew a university robotics project into an industrial automation company with over 350 employees. OTTO Motors currently offers automation solutions to some of the most globally recognized brands, including GE and Toyota. Under his leadership, OTTO Motors was named to Fast Company’s 2023 list of Most Innovative Companies and he continues to launch mobile robot deployments. “Fourteen years ago, my co-founders and I had the crazy idea that self-driving technology would transform the way industry works, but we never imagined the company would become the success it is today,” said Rendall. “I am honoured to be named a finalist, and I share it proudly with all our amazing employees. Entrepreneurship is a guiding value at OTTO Motors, and together we are transforming industries.” For twenty-nine years, the EY Entrepreneur Of The Year program has recognized entrepreneurs across Canada who master the artful balance of passion, determination, character and skill to create businesses that address the most complex challenges and build a better working world. Nominees are evaluated on their entrepreneurial spirit, financial and team growth, purpose and vision, and impact on their customers, employees and the world around them. “Whether they’re shaking up established industries or launching fresh ventures, these entrepreneurs are actively adapting to evolving market dynamics and customer expectations to propel sustainable growth,” says Rachel Rodrigues, EY Entrepreneur Of The Year Canada program director. “We’re excited to celebrate all of their achievements as they rise to the challenge of addressing our most pressing issues by delivering new solutions to market — all the while creating jobs and fuelling economic prosperity.” 