Rockwell Automation teams up with autonox Robotics to unlock new manufacturing capabilities Rockwell Automation and autonox Robotics‘ new strategic partnership will enable their customers in North America, Europe, Middle East and Africa to achieve new manufacturing possibilities through unified robot control solutions. The two companies are collaborating to bring Kinetix motors and drives of Rockwell with the robot mechanics of autonox together in a “customer-friendly catalogue number approach,” according to Rockwell Automation. The company explains that the robot solutions are programmed and controlled in a single environment using Logix-based controllers and the Studio 5000 automation system design software. This removes the need to try and coordinate traditionally disparate machine control and robot systems, instead yielding a simplified system architecture and reportedly helping teams work efficiently, deploy systems faster and create effective robotic automation systems. This unified robot control solution will be possible using autonox’s line of DELTA and DuoPod robot mechanics. “Manufacturers everywhere are facing a need to implement automation that is more agile and more intuitive so that their teams can act quickly, and they can realize the full potential of a robotic implementation to optimize their processes,” says Ritchie Logan, global lead, robotics technology partnerships at Rockwell Automation. “By using our unified robot control capability with autonox robots, companies can be better prepared to get the most out of their manufacturing assets today and be ready with flexible solutions that can meet future demands.” autonox Robotics DELTA and DuoPod robot mechanics are made of carbon fibre composites, stainless steels, titanium, aluminum and steel alloys, and are reportedly available in FDA-compliant materials, with special coatings, IP69K protection class and high-temperature resistant designs. “We are incredibly excited to partner with Rockwell Automation to achieve our goal of providing innovative robotic solutions that can be operated directly with Rockwell drive technology. This meets the current requirements of most machine building customers worldwide,” says Hartmut Ilch, chief executive officer at autonox Robotics. “We look forward to working with Rockwell to usher in a new era of productivity in plants across industries.” 