CME names Patrick Oland as chair of its board of directors Canadian Manufacturers and Exporters (CME) has appointed Patrick Oland, chief financial officer at Moosehead Breweries Limited, to chair of its national board of directors. Oland succeeds Elise Maheu, vice-president of Government Affairs, for the United States and Canada at 3M Canada Company, who has served as chair since 2021, after joining the board in 2015. His appointment was announced by the organization’s national board last week following its Annual Manufacturing Conference held in Ottawa. “Patrick brings a wealth of experience and business acumen to this important position,” said Dennis Darby, President and CEO of CME. “We are thrilled that he will be at the helm during this critical time in Canada’s manufacturing history. I would also like to thank Elise, who has helped steer our national association with so much passion and expertise for nearly 10 years.” Oland first joined CME’s board in 2017, serving as a vice-chair. As chair, he will focus on ensuring CME continues to work to enhance the country’s competitive position through effective policy advocacy with all levels of government and value-added training programs. “I am honoured to serve as chair of CME. The organization plays a critical role in helping Canadian manufacturers succeed in today’s challenging global environment,” he said. “As a member of a sixth-generation family brewing business, I am a big believer in our ability as a country to compete against the best.” Maheu will continue to serve on the board as past chair. “Serving as the chair of one of Canada’s largest and most influential business associations has been an immense privilege,” she said. “I am deeply proud of the work and exemplary leadership demonstrated by CME over the past years, consistently reminding us, as manufacturers, of our pivotal role in the economy and the ongoing significance we hold as we transition towards the future.” Manufacturers across the country are facing numerous challenges, including labour shortages, rising business costs, rapid technological advancements, and changes to the regulatory environment. Many of these issues were discussed last week at CME’s three-day national conference and AGM. A new report, “Manufacturing Our Future,” was also released at the conference. It outlines how the government can work together with industry to develop and implement a comprehensive national strategy for advanced manufacturing. The report includes 22 recommendations organized under the following four pillars: 