RS adds three new suppliers offering solutions for the industrial market RS Group has added three new suppliers to its network Niryo, HELUKABEL and MGM Transformer Company. Niryo specializes in affordable desktop collaborative robotics (cobots) designed to democratize access to Industry 4.0 technologies. Since launching in 2017, the roughly 40-person team at Niryo has developed the Ned2 cobot, a six-axis robotic arm based on open-source technologies and engineered for education, research and prototyping applications, and a line of corresponding add-ons and accessories, including a machine vision set, an autonomous conveyor, an electromagnet, an adaptive gripper, a large gripper and a vacuum pump. The Ned2 features a robust aluminum form factor with molded plastic covers, a range of motion that meets the needs of Industry 4.0 applications, and graphical human-machine interface (HMI) that allows users to set up, control, program, and manage cobot parameters, motion, add-ons and accessories. The full line of Niryo solutions will soon be in stock at RS. HELUKABEL is a supplier of cable, wire and accessories engineered for industrial, infrastructure, renewable energy, transportation, traffic, media, building and event applications. This medium-sized family company has 45 years of knowledge and expertise in the safe, reliable and effective transmission of power and data. It has more than 2,200 employees and 10 global manufacturing and assembly sites and has earned more than $883 million in total revenue. Products range from control and data cables to flexible and robust cables designed for drag chain applications in harsh manufacturing environments and include temperature-resistant, oil-resistant and halogen-free solutions, as well as a wide range of cable accessories. RS currently offers solutions, including PROFIBUS, TRAYCONTROL, FIVENORM, HELUKAT, HELUTHERM, TOPFLEX, TOPSERV and HO1N2-D arc welding cables. MGM Transformer Company is an independent transformer manufacturer. The company started developing dry-type transformers in 1975 and added liquid transformers in 1982. In recent years, MGM Transformer Company assembled an engineering team to develop energy-efficient transformers for sophisticated electrical infrastructure, drive isolation, traction duty, grounding, mining and high-rise building applications. 