Novarc Technologies launches its welding cobot in Australia Novarc Technologies unveiled its Spool Welding Robot (SWR), collaborative welding robot, and the SWR+HyperFill at Australian Manufacturing Week (AMW) in Melbourne held from May 9 to 12. “The SWR+HyperFill system featuring Lincoln Electric’s patented technology, allows pipe fabrication shops to achieve higher performance and quality, increasing the margins on projects they have already won, and giving them the ability to become more competitive when bidding on key infrastructure projects,” says Novarc’s vice-president of sales and marketing, Rick Campbell. Novarc launched its first welding cobot in 2016, designed to improve productivity and quality on the shop floor and reduced costs for pipe fabricators. The SWR uses a floating long-reach manipulator, with a three-axis robotic arm at the end, which works with a human operator to increase their dexterity and flexibility. It is designed specifically for pipe, small pressure vessel and other types of roll welding, and is capable of welding flanges, tees, elbows and reducers. “Implementation of the SWR has shown a 3-5x increase in pipe welding productivity in carbon steel and up to 12x for stainless steel projects, potentially allowing the collaborative robot’s capital cost to be recovered in an average of six to 18 months,” says Campbell. Novarc says in a press statement that the SWR+HyperFill specifically is a highly efficient dual torch system that increases heavy fabrication productivity to 350-500 Factored Diameter Inches (FDI) per shift by increasing weld deposition rates, all while delivering excellent weld quality. The SWR+HyperFill uses the Lincoln STT GMAW process on the root, and twin wire GMAW-P (HyperFill) on fill and cap passes. SWR+HyperFill utilizes Lincoln Electric’s patented twin-wire GMAW solution, HyperFill, to maximize productivity and profitability. “This automation technology addresses the increasingly competitive market in the contract manufacturing and fabrication industry, constantly under pressure to decrease bid rates and project timeframes. As well, this technology helps to solve the ominous welder shortage, allowing highly-skilled welders to extend their careers, and less-skilled welders working alongside the robot to do the job that previously only highly-skilled welders could perform,” adds Campbell. 