Pleora Technologies expands eBUS SDK; simplifies vision applications and system integration Pleora Technologies expanded its eBUS SDK to streamline application development and vision system connectivity for device manufacturers and integrators. According to a company statement, Pleora’s customers have deployed eBUS SDK 6.3 in industrial automation, medical imaging, and security and defense applications. “With its [eBUS SDK] expanding feature set and wider operating system support, our platform solves key integration challenges in multi-vendor systems while delivering application development advantages to help device and system manufacturers reduce costs and complexity,” said Jonathan Hou, president of Pleora Technologies. eBUS SDK is a platform that reportedly simplifies application development along with receive and transmit capabilities to streamline end-to-end data delivery between sensor devices and host applications. With eBUS SDK 6.3, the platform integrates Python support for Windows, Ubuntu, CentOS, and NVIDIA Jetson ARM operating systems and edge devices. Designers can leverage integrated Python code support to simplify development, reduce costs, and speed time-to-market of production-ready software applications. Pleora explains that the new platform introduces expanded and updated operating system support for Windows 11, Ubuntu 22.04 LTS, and CentOS/RedHat 8. Expanding Pleora’s Preferred Partner relationship with NVIDIA to include machine vision connectivity solutions, new JetPack 5.1 support means eBUS applications can be deployed on the latest NVIDIA Jetson AGX Orin and Jetson Orin NX platforms. For embedded applications, runtime packages for Linux operating systems (x86/ARM) reportedly enable lightweight deployment of eBUS-based applications for devices with limited onboard storage and memory. The vision standard-based platform lets developers control, configure and acquire images from any machine vision imaging device while avoiding supporting multiple APIs from different vendors. The eBUS Edge transmit functionality, available as an add-on license feature with eBUS SDK, reportedly provides a software-only approach to convert cameras, sensors and embedded platforms into fully compliant GigE Vision and GenICam devices. 