Zebra Technologies’ mobile robotics specialization for partners sees rapid growth Zebra Technologies recently shared that its Mobile Robotics Specialization program for channel partners has witnessed rapid growth since its launch in April 2022. Around 40 specialist robotics partners have joined the program till date. The company explains in a press statement that the Mobile Robotics Specialization program, a part of its PartnerConnect program, includes a comprehensive portfolio of sales and technical training courses and certifications that educate and support partners about Zebra’s robotics automation solutions. The courses feature Zebra’s Fetch autonomous mobile robots (AMRs) and FetchCore software. Qualifying partners in North America and EMEA gain exclusive access to business-building benefits such as pre-qualified leads, market development funds, go-to-market support and financial incentives to enable partners to market, sell and implement Zebra’s robotics automation solutions. “Zebra launched its Mobile Robotics Specialization because we’re a channel-centric company. We solve customer challenges and deliver the outcomes they need through and with our partners,” said Bill Cate, vice-president of product marketing and ecosystems at Zebra Technologies. “It’s important we support and reward partners who specialize in the solutions that our customers need for scalable and flexible operations to help drive their growth, meet demand and address labour challenges.” Zebra Technologies’ robotics automation solutions include a portfolio of Fetch AMRs that help mobile robotics specialists drive a range of materials movement outcomes in the warehouse or manufacturing plant, explains the company. “Partnering with Zebra has opened the doors to several new opportunities, even beyond mobile robotics,” said Bob Richards, vice-president of product offerings for AbeTech, a specialist in industrial automation solutions for warehouse, manufacturing and logistics enterprises across North America. “Customers see us differently after we discuss our AMR capabilities. And, we are very impressed with the ease of set-up and workflow creation, integration with outside systems, and enhanced safety features.” 