Automate 2023 shares program for its workforce development day The Association for Advancing Automation (A3) announced that its Workforce Development Day will take place on Thursday, May 25 during Automate in Detroit. Workforce Development Day will offer students ages 12 and up (with an adult chaperone), instructors and parents, with opportunities to learn more about top technologies and careers within automation and robotics across leading industries. “While some sectors are experiencing employment declines, new jobs in automation and robotics continue to increase,” said Deb Kling, vice-president of A3. “By attending Workforce Development Day, young professionals, parents and educators can discover exciting career paths they might not have otherwise thought about and meet with industry professionals from leading companies.” Automate 2023 will feature more than 700 exhibits from advanced manufacturers of industrial robots and automation technology. Students attending Workforce Development Day will have the opportunity to participate in free guided tours of the show floor throughout the day. During the tours, students will be able to see the latest technologies on display, learn more about pursuing a career in automation and share their resumes with select companies exhibiting at the show. For instructors within the engineering, robotics, mechatronics, machine vision, AI and automation space, A3 is hosting the Educator Networking Luncheon. The luncheon will take place from 12:30-2:30 p.m. on Thursday, May 25 and will feature discussions with key leaders in the industry focused on the latest trends, workforce development, educational equipment, curriculum and more. This offering is free for educators who are employed by a school, institution, or professional organization that supports student academic training and achievement (including secondary schools, career technical centers, colleges, universities, professional organizations, and nonprofits). There are additional educational and workforce opportunities slated to take place during Automate 2023. 