OTTO Motors, Nord Modules partner to provide integrated material handling solution OTTO Motors has entered into a strategic partnership with Nord Modules to develop and integrate new modular solutions to enhance the capabilities of mobile robots. OTTO Motors explains in a press statement that this partnership will help them to create new opportunities for automation in factories around the world. “As demand for automation continues to grow globally, manufacturers need a reliable, innovative and trusted solution,” said Matt Rendall, CEO and co-founder of OTTO Motors. “We’re excited to partner with Nord Modules to deliver an integrated solution that will move the autonomous material handling industry forward.” According to OTTO Motors, this partnership between both companies is a natural fit as they are committed to providing innovative solutions that help businesses become more efficient and productive. Nord Modules’ top modules are designed to be robust and reliable, while OTTO autonomous mobile robots (AMRs) are designed for flexibility, productivity and results. By combining their expertise, they intend to offer customers a range of solutions that streamline automated work processes with standard modules for specialized productions. “We are thrilled to partner with OTTO Motors,” said Nord Modules’ CEO, Erik Mønster. “Their commitment to providing innovative and flexible AMRs aligns perfectly with our vision of streamlining automated work processes with standardized modules. Together, we will be able to deliver a new level of automation for our customers.” Nord Modules has so far developed four module solutions for OTTO AMRs. The Pallet Mover 1000, in combination with the OTTO 1500, allows the robots to receive and deliver pallets. Its integrated technology enables communication to external roller conveyors by wireless signals. This fully automated solution allows heavy payload transportation of up to 1,675 kg. The Pallet Lift Top Modules, in combination with the OTTO 1500, optimize internal logistics by automating the internal transportation of pallets. The EU Pallet Lift solution picks up and delivers European-size pallets, while the NA Pallet Lift Top Module picks up and delivers North American-size pallets on the Nord Modules’ P&D stand. Both modules enable OTTO AMRs to lift and lower pallets autonomously for payloads up to 1,500 kg. The Quick Mover, to be released soon, is capable of transporting goods from gate to gate as well as picking up and delivering the Nord Modules Shelf Cart. The Quick Mover QM140-OTTO is designed for, and mounted on top of, an OTTO 100 using the lifting mechanism integrated into the AMR. 