ISA celebrates international automation professionals throughout April The International Society of Automation (ISA) celebrated automation professionals throughout the month of April. The organization was founded on April 28, 1945. To recognize this day, ISA celebrates April 28 as ‘International Automation Professionals Day’ every year. This year, ISA did a digital celebration of the field of automation and its people throughout the month. ISA invited automation professionals around the world to participate in this digital celebration throughout the month. The organization encouraged career-established individuals, entry-level personnel and automation students to engage with ISA on social media with images and testimonials that feature them on the job, studying for their automation-related major, or by giving statements about why they enjoy their line of work, and why they believe automation is changing the world. ISA Executive Director Claire Fallon said that the automation field is vital to many sectors, and the day celebrates the hard work of professionals who are working to keep society safe and secure. “I want all automation professionals to know that they make the world a better place,” she said. “Because of them, the world is safer, more efficient, and more effective. Professionals are the people, not the machines, that creatively look at a problem and tenaciously tackle it from every angle until the best solution is found.” This year, ISA hoped to engage an even larger audience and encourage members and non-members to participate in the festivities. ISA President Marty Bince said that those in automation play a vital factor in life’s modern-day conveniences, and he is happy to highlight their achievements. “This will be a time to celebrate all the outstanding opportunities that automation professionals have and the contributions they make,” he said. “From power production to smart manufacturing, instrumentation, and digitalization, automation professionals play a crucial role in ensuring the reliability, safety, efficiency and competitiveness of our businesses for all the things that make life wonderful.” 