Vention unveils new experience centre in its Montreal headquarters Vention opened the doors to its first experience centre located in their Montreal headquarters, on April 21. The new centre is aligned with the company’s mission to democratize industrial automation. It aims to make automation more accessible to all manufacturers through training and development opportunities, explains Vention in a press statement. “This new centre is reinforcing our commitment to the future of industrial automation,” said Etienne Lacroix, CEO and co-founder of Vention. “We wanted to create an environment where manufacturers can see, touch, and try out the latest technology—gaining valuable skills that they can then take and apply to their own manufacturing floors.” At its experience centre, Vention will provide manufacturers with access to the latest innovations in industrial automation through live demos, educational sessions and hands-on training. Within one space, individuals of all levels can experience the full reach of Vention’s Manufacturing Automation Platform (MAP) and leave with the skills and knowledge to design, automate, order, and deploy automated solutions themselves, says the company. Vention’s new centre will allow its manufacturer customers to experience automation solutions hands-on. (Photo: Vention) Vention explains in its statement that industrial automation today is becoming the primary solution for manufacturers to reduce costs while solving the still prevalent labour shortage. By blending engineering software and modular hardware under one platform, manufacturers can realize automation projects sooner and at a lower cost. The intuitive nature of Vention’s Manufacturing Automaton Platform is designed to give manufacturers the opportunity to upskill their existing workforce by providing them with the right tools to complete projects in-house, the company adds. “With the do-it-yourself capabilities arising from the Manufacturing Automation Platform, companies are now able to realize cost and productivity gain through the upskilling of their workforce and creating Advanced Manufacturing Teams,” said Lacroix. “Our Experience Center provides the tools needed for any company to upskill their employees through free and hands-on in-person training.” 