Heddle Shipyards boosts manufacturing capabilities with $107 million investment Manufacturer Heddle Shipyards in St. Catharines, a ship construction and repair company, is investing $107 million to improve its facilities and processes. The company will use this investment to tackle complex Vessel Life Extension (VLE) projects at its Port Weller Dry Docks in St. Catharines and create 30 new, good-paying jobs in the region. With the $107 million investment, Heddle Shipyards will implement the processes, engineering, training and equipment needed for VLE projects, including on-the-job training for skilled trades and support staff, automated manufacturing technologies and the use of 3D scanning for manufacturing projects. VLEs are designed to extend the life of marine vessels significantly. The provincial government is supporting this Heddle Shipyards investment with $3.4 million through the Advanced Manufacturing and Innovation Competitiveness stream of its Regional Development Program. “We are extremely grateful for the support that Minister Fedeli and the Government of Ontario continue to have for the shipbuilding and ship repair industry in our province,” said Ted Kirkpatrick, Director of Business Development and Government Relations at Heddle Shipyards. “Investments through programs like AMIC will allow Ontario to once again be a frontrunner in the shipbuilding industry in Canada and support hundreds of high-paying skilled trade jobs in our communities over the coming decade.” “This significant investment by Heddle Shipyards in St. Catharines for their Vessel Life Extension projects, and their continued investments in facilities across the province, demonstrates that by lowering costs and increasing competitiveness, we’re helping local champions like Heddle grow and making Ontario a top place for businesses to thrive,” said Vic Fedeli, Minister of Economic Development, Job Creation and Trade. “Through our Regional Development Program, our government is proud to help Ontario manufacturers expand and create more good-paying jobs for local workers. Thank you, Heddle Shipyards, for continuing to innovate and invest in your facilities across Ontario.” 