Bosch Rexroth wins the Hermes Award 2023 at Hannover Messe Bosch Rexroth was named the winner of the Hermes Award 2023 at Hannover Messe. The company received the award at the opening ceremony of the event from Bettina Stark-Watzinger, Germany’s Federal Minister of Education and Research, in the presence of German Chancellor Olaf Scholz. According to a Hannover Messe press statement, the jury this year awarded the prize for a product geared to the dynamic robotics market. As one of the three nominees, the Smart Flex Effector project consists of a sensor-based compensation module (end effector) for robots, featuring independent, precise kinematics in six degrees of freedom. It can be used in handling or joining processes with tight tolerances in automation technology or robotics, with loads of up to six kilograms. The position of workpieces or handling objects can be sensed by robots which are outfitted with the Smart Flex Effector. The range of applications is diverse, since it is also suitable for human-robot collaboration as an add-on device for a variety of robots. “Close human-robot interaction occupies a central position in solving pressing economic, societal and demographic challenges: from optimizing industrial assembly to increasing productivity in agriculture to supporting medical and nursing staff in the form of assistance robots,” said Prof. Reimund Neugebauer, president of the Fraunhofer Society and chairperson of the Hermes Award jury. He added, “The Smart Flex Effector is driving efficiency and diversity in the uses of robots, creating quantifiable value for industry, the environment and society. With the award for this project, the Hermes Award goes to Bosch Rexroth for the third time. Congratulations on this excellent achievement.” The Hermes Award is Hannover Messe’s international technology award. Presented annually, the award is open to all companies and institutions taking part as exhibitors at the trade fair. It is awarded to outstanding products and innovative solutions that demonstrate a particularly high degree of technological innovation. The award is traditionally presented at the opening ceremony of the event. 