Canada officially named partner country for Hannover Messe 2025 Canada was officially designated as the partner country for Hannover Messe 2025. On Monday, 17 April, at Hannover Messe, Isabelle Poupart, Minister and Deputy Head of Mission at Embassy of Canada to Germany, and Dr. Jochen Köckler, Chairman of the Managing Board, Deutsche Messe AG, signed the official Memo of Understanding. “It is an honour and a great opportunity for Canada to partner with Germany in hosting Hannover Messe in 2025. This partnership will help deepen the already strong economic, political and cultural ties between Canada and Germany. We will work hand in hand with local and global partners to provide a platform for Canadian companies, industry associations and institutions to showcase Canada as a leading industrial innovation economy at Hannover Messe,” said François-Philippe Champagne, Minister of Innovation, Science and Industry of Canada. The signing finalizes the agreement announced in August 2022 during German Chancellor Scholz’s visit with Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau in Canada. “Canada is a globally growing and innovative country and important economic partner for Germany,” said Köckler. “Deutsche Messe AG and Germany’s leading industry associations are convinced that Canada’s prominent role at Hannover Messe 2025 will expand its economic policy goals in Europe and further strengthen bilateral relations between Canada and Germany.” Germany is Canada’s seventh-largest source of foreign direct investment and one of Canada’s most important sources of high-tech investment, according to a Hannover Messe press statement. More than 800 German companies operate in Canada, employing roughly 70,000 people. Canada and Germany also share a dynamic relationship in science, technology, and innovation, having initiated more than 1,000 cooperative research projects since 1971. The Canadian government and companies from the private sector are currently funding five superclusters in Canada with roughly €1.2 billion to reinforce innovative sectors and position them internationally. The goal is to create 50,000 jobs and economic growth of €34 billion over the next 10 years. Three of the super clusters – SCALE.AI, Advanced Manufacturing and Digital Technology – are key topics at Hannover Messe 2023. 