Emerson set to acquire National Instruments for $8.2 billion Emerson and National Instruments (NI) have entered into a definitive agreement under which Emerson will acquire NI for $60 per share in cash at an equity value of $8.2 billion. “With this expansion into test and measurement, Emerson will enhance its automation capabilities and gain a broader set of customers that relies on NI’s solutions at critical points along the product development cycle. These capabilities provide Emerson industry diversification into attractive and growing discrete markets like semiconductor and electronics, transportation and electric vehicles, and aerospace and defence that are poised to benefit from secular growth trends. NI’s business is well-aligned with our vision for automation and we look forward to working together to bring more comprehensive and innovative solutions to our customers, accelerate growth and position Emerson to deliver significant shareholder value,” said Lal Karsanbhai, president and CEO of Emerson. Emerson currently owns approximately 2.3 million shares of NI, representing approximately two percent of shares outstanding, which were acquired at a weighted average price of $36.84. As a result, Emerson’s effective per share purchase price is $59.61. NI provides software-connected automated test and measurement systems that enable enterprises to bring products to market faster and at a lower cost. NI’s solutions aim at helping customers solve current and future test challenges and improve speed and efficiency in their product development cycles. “Over the past several months, we’ve been evaluating strategic options for the future of our business with the intent to maximize its value,” said Eric Starkloff, NI’s CEO. “We ran a robust and comprehensive process, considered a range of potential options, and believe this represents the best outcome for all NI stakeholders. This transaction is a strong testament to the improvements and initiatives we’ve implemented in recent years that have transformed NI into a software-focused company with higher growth, better profitability and lower cyclicality. We’re thrilled that Emerson recognizes the value we’ve created and we believe they will help us build on our momentum to further position NI as a leading provider of software-connected automated test and measurement systems.” 