ISA Global Cybersecurity Alliance names advisory board leadership for 2023-2024 The ISA Global Cybersecurity Alliance (ISAGCA) – a collaborative forum to advance OT cybersecurity awareness, education, readiness, standardization and knowledge sharing – has announced its new advisory board leadership for 2023-2024. This includes: “We are honoured to have two of the industry’s most recognizable cybersecurity professionals as the new leaders of the ISAGCA Advisory Board,” said Andre Ristaino, ISA managing director of global consortia and conformance programs. “ISAGCA was created to address cybersecurity threats and vulnerabilities that are clear and present dangers to our facilities, our processes, and the safety of our communities. With so much work to be done, we will benefit from the balance of a vendor and end-user in the chair and vice-chair roles respectively. Matt and Chris are extremely busy in their company roles, and we are grateful for their generous leadership commitment to ISAGCA.” Matt Bohne is a cybersecurity leader and executive. He has a proven track record of building and leading cybersecurity organizations securing energy, industrial, buildings, nuclear, pharmaceutical and consumer sectors. He is a sought-after expert with deep experience in DevSecOps, critical infrastructure, software engineering, secure SDLC, supply chain security, privacy and risk management. “ISAGCA is a critical voice in our industry advocating for OT cybersecurity standards and conformance, and I am honoured to lead the advisory board alongside many of this industry’s thought leaders and experts,” said Bohne. “Honeywell has been a member of ISAGCA since the consortium’s foundation, and I am excited about the opportunity to drive even more awareness of the ISA/IEC 62443 series of standards around the world.” Chris McLaughlin is passionate about industrial control systems (ICS). He has spoken frequently at conferences about the importance of working together with engineering counterparts to manage this threat. McLaughlin has over 25 years of security and infrastructure experience leading the vision for a manufacturing company. In 2022, he was recognized by C100 as one of the top 100 chief information security officers (CISO) in the U.S. In addition to his work with JM, he serves as president for the Denver InfraGard chapter and is an active member of the Domestic Security Alliance Council (DSAC), both of which focus on protecting critical infrastructure. “Industrial systems security has finally become a big part of the conversation that I am having with my peer CISOs,” said McLaughlin. “ISAGCA has an opportunity to help organizations understand the ISA/IEC 62443 framework that they can use to help them secure their industrial assets. This is a great opportunity, and I am excited to continue my partnership with the community to keep us all safe and secure.” 