CME approves of government support for manufacturers in 2023 federal budget Canadian Manufacturers & Exporters (CME) released a press statement expressing its approval of the 2023 federal budget. The association welcomes the initial steps it takes to respond to the US Inflation Reduction Act, drive net zero transitions, improve labour shortages and alleviate supply chain disruptions. CME noted in its statement that it was very vocal ahead of the budget announcement, urging government to act to support manufacturers. Ongoing labour shortages, the US’ Inflation Reduction Act’s negative impact on manufacturing investment in Canada, and the high costs of transitioning manufacturing production to a net-zero future all needed to be addressed or Canada risked missing out on the next generation of manufacturing production. “We were pleased to see the budget respond to our biggest challenges and believe that the investments made today into Canada’s industrial capacity are good first steps in strengthening our sector,” said Dennis Darby, president and CEO of CME. “We will continue to work with the government in the days ahead to get details and ensure the commitments made today are maximized and upheld.” CME explains that the 2023 budget answered these calls by proposing the following measures: Missing from the budget this year was CME’s ask to extend the 10 percent Atlantic Investment Tax Credit to all Canadian jurisdictions and for targeted help for SME’s for net-zero transition. “Manufacturing has always been a cornerstone of the Canadian economy, generating 10 percent of Canada’s GDP, more than 60 percent of our merchandise exports, and directly employing 1.7 million Canadians and supporting 3.4 million more workers through supply chain activity and employee spending. With the commitments made in Budget 2023, we have the building blocks to help manufacturing drive Canadian prosperity for years to come. We always need to do more, however, and we look forward to working with the government to achieve all our mutual goals” concluded Darby. 