ABB invests $20M to expand its North American robotics headquarters ABB is expanding its existing North American robotics headquarters and manufacturing facility in Auburn Hills, Michigan. The company is investing $20 million in the expansion project, which is currently underway. ABB expects the construction to complete in November 2023. The company received a $450,000 Michigan Business Development Program performance-based grant for this project. “Our investment is a significant step in accelerating ABB Robotics’ global leadership in developing and manufacturing cutting-edge robotic solutions in the U.S., for the Americas,” said Sami Atiya, president of ABB Robotics and Discrete Automation. “As the global mega trends of labour shortages, uncertainty, the near and reshoring of production, and a desire to operate more sustainably accelerate, more businesses are turning to automation to build resilience while improving efficiency and flexibility. Our expanded facility will help us to better serve customers in the US and across the Americas, giving them access to innovative automated solutions.” The company explained in a press statement that the latest investment in its robotics headquarters and factory will benefit customers in the Americas, particularly those in growth sectors including electric vehicles, healthcare, packaging and logistics. ABB Robotics moved into the 538,000-square-foot building in 1993 and opened the manufacturing plant in 2015. This facility showcased the company’s complete commitment to a North American robotics production footprint. ABB is adding the latest digital and automation technologies through this project to manufacture next-generation robots. (Photo: ABB) “The expanded facility will feature the most advanced technology available, with AI-enabled robots and smart digital manufacturing systems supporting the production and manufacture of state-of-the-art customer solutions,” said John Bubnikovich, ABB United States robotics division president. The company adds that this investment will see the latest digital and automation technologies implemented to manufacture next-generation robots in the U.S., for the Americas, streamlining the delivery process and reducing lead times. Close to 90 percent of robots delivered to customers in the U.S., Canada, Mexico and South America will soon be made in Auburn Hills. The plant will utilize flexible, modular production cells that are digitally connected and networked, and served by intelligent autonomous mobile robots. AI-powered robotic systems will take on tasks such as screw driving, assembling and material handling, relieving people from these tasks and enabling more rewarding work. 