RS Group names Simon Pryce as its chief executive officer RS Group has appointed Simon Pryce as its chief executive officer (CEO) and executive director, effective from 3 April. David Egan, currently acting CEO, will work alongside Pryce in his role as chief financial officer. “RS is a business that I have admired both as a board member and indirectly as a customer, for some time. RS has delivered a strong performance over the last few years. However, what excites me most is the significant potential of this group, with its great people and culture. I relish the opportunity to work with David and our colleagues globally to drive the group’s growth, further enhance operational execution and continue to evolve the RS high-performance, purpose-led culture,” said Pryce. RS Group noted in a press statement that Pryce is a highly experienced business leader of customer-focused, global industrial manufacturing and service businesses. He has a strong track record of driving results and delivering stakeholder outcomes through enhanced performance and the effective execution of organic and inorganic growth strategies. Most recently, Pryce was CEO of Ultra Electronic Holdings for over four years which was acquired by Advent in August 2022. Prior to this, he was group chief executive at BBA Aviation for 10 years and previously held a range of international finance and management roles. Pryce has served as a non-executive director of RS since 2016 and has been chair of the remuneration committee since 2019. Pryce will step down from all the board committees on which he sits with immediate effect. Joan Wainwright will replace him as chair of the remuneration committee. Board chair Rona Fairhead said, “Following a rigorous selection process, we are delighted to appoint Simon Pryce as CEO of RS Group. Simon is an experienced and proven CEO of high-performing international businesses with strong, effective cultures. On behalf of the board, I would like to thank and acknowledge the excellent work David has done, both as acting CEO and as CFO, in driving progress and the continued successful transformation, performance and growth at RS.” 