Basler and Siemens collaborate to streamline automation systems with machine vision solutions Basler is strategically partnering with Siemens to make it easier for automation customers in all industries to integrate machine vision solutions directly into their automation systems. According to Basler, this collaboration will bring significant benefits to customers. System integrators, machine builders and professional end users looking to use computer vision will reportedly have easy access to innovative, automated and easy-to-integrate solutions. This will allow them to streamline their production process, increase efficiency, lower costs, as well as improving transparency and quality control. The first result of this partnership is the Basler Vision Connector – an app that allows Basler’s vision components to be integrated into Siemens’ Industrial Edge ecosystem. In addition to the Industrial Edge ecosystem, the Basler Vision Connector will also be integrated into Siemens’ SIMATIC TIA ecosystem, enabling customers to freely choose the best-fitting solution for their applications. This is only the initial phase of the partnership. Plans are in place to broaden its scope to encompass a wider array of computer vision applications by offering Basler’s pylon SDK on Siemens’ automation devices. This will reportedly allow customers to integrate vision applications into their automation processes, including conventional computer vision functionality as well as performing evaluations based on machine learning. The partnership also includes aligning customer support between the two companies to ensure that customers have a single point of contact for information and advice. “Together we’re integrating machine vision into automation. This helps with many tasks, for example when it comes to difficult quality control or to reduce errors and thus defects in industrial production, or to react to the shortage of skilled workers. In doing so, we are taking an important step towards an adaptable, sustainable production and increasingly autonomous production processes,” says Rainer Brehm, CEO of factory automation at Siemens. 