Rockwell Automation acquires digital technology company Knowledge Lens Rockwell Automation has acquired India-based digital technology solutions provider Knowledge Lens. The company’s services and solutions offer actionable business insights from enterprise data, combining digital technologies with deep data science, artificial intelligence (AI) and engineering expertise. Knowledge Lens joins Rockwell’s digital services business, Kalypso, to accelerate transformational outcomes for more manufacturers around the world. Together with Kalypso, Knowledge Lens will significantly expand Rockwell’s capabilities to unlock the power of data, enable autonomous manufacturing and drive continuous optimization for more manufacturers, says Rockwell Automation in a press statement. “Data offers enormous advantages for those manufacturers able to harness its full potential. But for many, only a fraction of the data generated by their plants and in their supply chains is ever used,” said Frank Kulaszewicz, senior vice-president of Rockwell Automation’s Lifecycle Services segment. “The acquisition of Knowledge Lens improves our ability to help more manufacturers around the world discover and use the hidden insights in their data to drive game-changing value for their businesses.” Knowledge Lens, founded in 2013, serves a broad range of manufacturers, with a specialization in highly regulated industries, including life sciences. Knowledge Lens also expands Kalypso’s ability to serve clients with an open platform approach across leading AI and digital technologies. “We are excited to join Rockwell and Kalypso and extend our collective ability to innovate and build a more sustainable, resilient, and human-centric society,” said Sudheesh Narayanan, CEO and founder of Knowledge Lens. “With our combined experience, and Knowledge Lens’ pre-packaged cloud-native solutions for common use cases including smart factory, connected workers, IT/OT integration, data migration, and sustainability, we are well-positioned to extend our impact in the market.” 