Honda Canada Foundation to contribute $375,000 to FIRST Robotics Canada Honda Canada Foundation (HCF) kicked off National Engineering Month by announcing a $375,000 contribution to FIRST Robotics Canada over three years. HCF’s program sponsorship will support FIRST Robotics Competitions at the provincial and championship levels. Thirty high-school teams will each receive $2,000 to build impressive robots to compete. HCF supports programs that encourage education in engineering and technology with hands-on activities for children and youth interested in the fields of science. “Honda Canada Foundation extends its partnership with FIRST Robotics Canada as we are excited to be a part of their positive influence and exceptional programming for years to come,” said Tony Facciolo, chair of the Honda Canada Foundation. “Engineering and STEM are at the heart of our values at Honda, and we naturally feel it is important to inspire and support the next generation of innovators and problem solvers. We look forward to seeing the best in robotics built from scratch by students competing at the FIRST Robotics Competitions.” FIRST Robotic Competition is an annual competition where high school student teams under strict rules and limited time and resources, use sophisticated technology to build and program industrial-sized robots to play an action-packed, alliance-based game on a themed field. With professional mentors and sponsors, students learn engineering and problem-solving skills that they can apply to real-world situations today and in the future. Each team, while also fundraising to meet their goals, design a team “brand,” and advance respect and appreciation for STEM within the local community. “FIRST Robotics Canada is a leader in youth STEM opportunities, and we are excited to be back to full capacity at our events this year,” said David Ellis, president FIRST Robotics Canada. “To close the STEM skills gap, we need businesses and communities engaged and working together to help young people prepare for an ever-changing workforce. Our generous sponsors help to make the magic happen! We are thrilled to have the Honda Canada Foundation support our programs and youth for the next three years and to continue to inspire and open pathways for more kids.” 