Bosch Rexroth acquires HydraForce, strengthens hydraulics portfolio Bosch Rexroth completed the acquisition of hydraulic specialist HydraForce on February 3. The acquisition of the Illinois-based company was announced in July 2022. The acquisition strengthens Bosch Rexroth’s footprint in North America. It also expands its distribution network to provide customers a wider range of compact hydraulics solutions globally, notes the company in a press statement. The companies are combining their presence in complementary regions to provide a more balanced coverage in North America and Europe, while enabling growth in Asia. Merging activities maintain regional supply chains for fast product availability and stronger customer support. “The acquisition of HydraForce broadens the hydraulics offering for existing and new customers, expands our global market access through additional indirect sales channels and provides opportunities for further growth,” says Steffen Haack, CEO of Bosch Rexroth. While Bosch Rexroth offers compact hydraulic components and systems, HydraForce focuses on mechanical and electrical cartridge valves and hydraulic integrated circuits (HIC). The world market for these systems has been growing continuously. The business activities of HydraForce will be integrated in the Compact Hydraulics Business Unit of Bosch Rexroth. The leadership team of the Compact Hydraulics Business Unit will consist of managers from both companies. Frank Hess, currently heading the Compact Hydraulics Business Unit of Bosch Rexroth, will lead the newly shaped organization. “We warmly welcome all HydraForce colleagues to our powerful Bosch Rexroth family and wish the entire Compact Hydraulics team a successful start,” adds Haack. “As HydraForce and Bosch Rexroth join forces, we will combine our customer focus, application expertise and entrepreneurial know-how to achieve sustained growth above market. Together, we will continue to provide excellent support and innovations for our customers, further develop our strong relationships with partners, and open great opportunities for our associates,” says Hess. 