Pilz releases latest version of access permission system Pilz released a new version of its electronic access permission system – the PITreader card unit – for flexible, secure management of access to machinery. The PITreader card unit allows operators to assign permissions on RFID transponders in card or sticker format. With its access permission system PITreader card unit, Pilz is introducing new formats for efficient control of access permissions: The RFID-capable cards PITreader card and stickers PITreader sticker can be used in conjunction with or instead of the existing PITreader key transponder key. Machine operators have their individual permissions on the transponder and use them to authenticate themselves on the PITreader card unit, to gain entry to a plant or machine. That way, operating companies increase industrial security, because they control who has what permission and therefore who is granted access to the process. With the new transponder types, operating companies have greater flexibility when managing access permissions. At the same time, they also meet the requirements for functionally safe operating mode selection. The RFID transponders are available as freely writeable and also preconfigured versions. A transparent window on the PITreader card enables users to still read the LED status indicator on the access permission system when the card is held up to it. If the company already uses RFID-capable cards, these can also be used in conjunction with PITreader card unit: in this case, users need only one card for multiple functions. With the PITreader S card unit, the automation expert is also introducing a version for integrating the OPC UA standard, enabling optimum safety and connectivity. Administrators manage their user settings, block lists and user data for the transponder keys, cards or stickers via the graphical interface on the corresponding software solution PIT Transponder Manager (PTM) from Pilz. With preconfigured templates, individual user permissions are written to the RFID transponder. If a company uses several reader units PITreader, these are organized using the User Authentication Service (UAS) software tool. PITreader card unit can be used efficiently in combination with the small configurable controller PNOZmulti 2 or the automation system PSS4000 from Pilz for control of access permissions and safe operating mode selection. 