RS hosts event to launch its recent rebranding RS (formerly Allied Electronics & Automation), a trading brand of RS Group, celebrated the rebranding of Allied Electronics & Automation as RS with an event for employees and local media. The company shared in a press statement that the Allied rebrand is a key element of an extensive ongoing rebranding strategy to establish a better connection across RS Group’s product and service solutions. The rebranding event celebrated this significant milestone in RS history, the newly expanded footprint of the RS brand and the benefits that operating as a collective organization will provide for its people, customers, suppliers, communities and shareholders. The RS brand launch event welcomed around 500 employees to the on-site festivities, while other employees from RS offices in North America and all over the world engaged virtually. Presentations by RS executives focused on the power and potential of the combined global organization and how it will harness the essence of both Allied and RS to continue delivering the same local service while evolving into a more globally connected group with expanded resources and opportunities. They also introduced Risoul, a leading distributor of industrial and automation product and service solutions in Mexico that RS Group acquired in January. Other event highlights included employee testimonials and demo stations highlighting RS product and service solutions. “We accomplished a lot together last year, and I’m incredibly proud of how well our accomplishments demonstrate our unwavering commitment to creating the best possible environment for our employees to thrive. As RS, we will continue to create a culture that is grounded in high performance, both individually and in teams, and is purpose led — where our people are empowered to bring their true selves to work every day and do their best work. We want working here to be more than just a job. We want it to be a place where you can truly contribute to our company-wide purpose, which is making amazing happen for a better world,” said Katie Cartwright, RS vice-president of people and culture, Americas. 