NGen receives $177 million investment support from Government of Canada Next Generation Manufacturing Canada (NGen) received an investment of $177 Million from the Government of Canada. Budget 2022 confirmed Canada’s commitment to the clusters. The government earmarked an additional $750 million through to 2028 to support the further growth and development of Canada’s Global Innovation Clusters. “This investment from the Government of Canada is a vote of confidence in our ability to deliver world-leading solutions in advanced manufacturing,” said Jayson Myers, CEO, NGen. “With a strong track record of results and a growing network of researchers, technology companies, and manufacturers, NGen will continue to strengthen collaboration across Canada’s advanced manufacturing sector, support the commercialization of world-leading projects, and promote Canada’s advanced manufacturing capabilities on the world stage. We are excited to launch our next round of calls for project proposals.” Launched as a new approach to innovation through co-investment with industry, the Global Innovation Clusters program aims at building accelerated, strong ecosystems that will take innovators further, faster through collaboration. NGen shares in a press statement that this model has proven successful at creating stronger ecosystems, de-risking adoption of technology and maximizing the value of intellectual property. It has also helped forge new partnerships that increase firms’ market potential. Moving forward there will be an increased focus on coordinated multi-cluster collaboration which will see the clusters bringing together their respective industries to tackle large, real-world problems. With renewed funding, NGen will leverage Canada’s research, technology and manufacturing strengths to develop, scale up and commercialize transformative solutions in advanced manufacturing. Future NGen funding calls will focus specifically on opportunities across the zero-emission vehicle value chain, the decarbonization of manufacturing processes and circular manufacturing of materials, and other strategic, world-leading advanced manufacturing initiatives. Companies with proposals for transformational advanced manufacturing projects should contact project@ngen.ca to explore project ideas and find collaboration partners. 