OPC Foundation, Digital Twin Consortium sign liaison agreement The OPC Foundation and the Digital Twin Consortium (DTC) entered into a liaison agreement to accelerate the development and adoption of digital twin-enabling technologies. Both parties have worked closely together in several open-source reference implementation projects on GitHub and have agreed to collaborate even closer. “We are excited about working with OPC Foundation,” said Dan Isaacs, GM and CTO of DTC. “Through our collaboration, we will influence interoperability standards and processes that will advance the use of digital twins in manufacturing across many industries.” The DTC and OPC Foundation have agreed to the following activities: Stefan Hoppe, president of the OPC Foundation, said in a press statement, “The OPC Foundation maintains the global standard for secure industrial interoperability for information modelling and data exchange, which, as part of this relationship with DTC, benefits all who wish to create semantically identical digital twins. Our involvement to liaise with DTC further strengthens the user’s ability to model each data aspect quickly and precisely, creating and interacting with any digital twin. Digital twins will be fully compatible with the OPC UA framework used in the run-time components within the operational domain.” “As one of the key contributors to Digital Twin Consortium’s open-source program, Microsoft saw the rising demand for open digital twin technology and industrial interoperability standards like OPC UA. The collaboration of OPC Foundation and DTC will continue to elevate the impact of digital twin technologies. These two organizations have already started collaborating on open-source projects and these projects will expand to include emerging technologies,” said Erich Barnstedt, chief architect of standards, consortia and industrial IoT at Azure Edge + Platform, Microsoft Corporation. Both consortia will exchange information through regular consultations, joint contributor relations, seminars, open-source projects and other activities. 