Dana Canada’s investment receives Ontario’s support to fuel EV manufacturing growth Dana Canada Corporation, a manufacturer of drivetrain and electric propulsion motor systems, is investing $60 million to expand its manufacturing capacity. Across its two facilities in Oakville and Cambridge, the company is expanding its capacity to manufacture thermal management systems, a key component for electric vehicle (EV) batteries and electronics. The Ontario government is supporting the investment with $2.5 million through Invest Ontario, the government’s investment attraction agency. Dana’s expansion will play a key role in accelerating the province’s Driving Prosperity plan, a 10-year government strategy geared at transforming Ontario’s automotive supply chain and positioning the province as a North American leader in electric and battery EV manufacturing. “Our government is creating the right conditions for multinational manufacturers to grow in Ontario and create more good-paying jobs across the province,” said Vic Fedeli, Minister of Economic Development, Job Creation and Trade. “As Ontario continues to build an end-to-end EV and EV battery supply chain, our government is proud to support manufacturers like Dana in expanding their production capacity and increasing their competitiveness. Thank you, Dana, for continuing to choose Ontario.” With operations spanning 31 countries, Dana’s significant investment will position the Cambridge facility as one of its primary manufacturing sites in Canada, in addition to supporting operational growth at the Oakville Technology Centre. These expansion efforts are expected to create 105 new, good-paying jobs in these communities and the surrounding area. “Dana is grateful for the support we have received from the province of Ontario as we continue to grow our operations here to manufacture advanced technologies,” said Antonio Valencia, Dana president of Power Technologies and Global Electrification. “Dana’s thermal-management expertise has been led from our Technology Centre in Ontario since the 1950s, so it is exciting to witness the continued growth of this important technology in the province.” 