Hannover Messe 2023 to discuss impact of motion, drive and automation firms Hannover Messe, taking place from April 17 to 21 this year, is focusing on the way in which a number of different industrial ecosystems are intertwined to provide solutions for resource-efficient, climate-neutral and resilient production. The lead theme for the 2023 event is “Industrial Transformation – Making the Difference.” This is a reference to how companies from the mechanical engineering, electrical and digital industries as well as the energy sector are driving change to tangibly reduce CO² emissions on a major scale. “At the upcoming Hannover Messe, we will be able to witness the new products and substantial innovations with which our exhibitors are tackling several different crises. In April, they will be presenting highly specific solutions for greater efficiency to counter climate change and enable CO²-neutral production. Digitization, artificial intelligence and hydrogen play a prominent role here,” reported Dr. Jochen Köckler, chairman of the managing board at Deutsche Messe, in a press statement. “Due to their high level of innovation, companies from the drive and fluid technology sectors have traditionally been among the biggest and most sustainable drivers of innovation at Hannover Messe.” A press statement from the event organizers explains that the transformation of drive technology and fluid power is running at full speed. Despite numerous global challenges, the two sectors are experiencing excellent economic results. Innovativeness and solutions competence are placing drive and fluid technology at the heart of Industrie 4.0. Added to this are the issues of climate protection and resource efficiency, which require cutting-edge technologies to provide lasting solutions. Here, in particular, digitization offers new, efficient and sustainable solution approaches for customers in both industries. “Drive and fluid technology components are the central building blocks of machines, for power and motion, but also as a source of data for digital value-added services and crucial to the performance of customer products – this is what we will be showing at Hannover Messe,” emphasizes Hartmut Rauen, deputy executive director of VDMA and responsible for power transmission engineering and fluid power at the association. Companies from the VDMA Drive Technology and Fluid Power Associations offer core components and systems to help their customers implement issues surrounding sustainability and digitization. The examples at the trade fair reveal that the supplier industry is an important source of data and offers services that make future-efficient and sustainable machines possible. The structured and continuous generation and processing of data are essential in this context. Software and hardware go hand in hand. This is what makes automated and predictive maintenance and the efficient operation of machines and plants possible. Digitization is leading mechanical engineering into the future by promoting sustainability, and drive technology and fluid power – as supplier industries – are key enablers, explains the event press statement. 