Emerson receives ‘Industrial IoT Company of the Year’ award for 2023 Emerson was named the IoT Breakthrough 2023 “Industrial IoT Company of the Year.” This is the fifth time the company received this award, having earned it previously in 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2022. This year’s award recognizes Emerson’s Plantweb digital ecosystem, which now includes the AspenTech suite of plant optimization software solutions. Leveraging decades of innovation and expertise, Emerson delivers a broad suite of automation technology to manufacturers across all industries. Emerson and AspenTech’s portfolio of sensor, edge, control and software solutions – the Plantweb digital ecosystem – are designed to help companies optimize operations and performance of their plants and enterprise. “Emerson is proud to be consistently recognized as an automation leader with a demonstrated commitment to innovating and providing leading solutions that help customers meet their business and sustainability goals in today’s dynamic markets,” said Ram Krishnan, chief operating officer of Emerson. “By integrating AspenTech into our industry-leading Plantweb digital ecosystem, we provide customers the most comprehensive digital transformation portfolio in the industry, backed by deep automation expertise.” IoT Breakthrough, which recognizes excellence, creativity and success of Internet of Things (IoT) companies, technologies and products, received more than 4,000 nominations for the 2023 competition. The awards honour the world’s best companies, leaders, technologies and products in a range of IoT categories. Winners are selected by a panel of senior-level professionals experienced in the IoT space, including journalists, analysts and technology executives. “Emerson continues its decades-long streak of digital innovation and leadership across all automation categories, and the company’s breakthrough Plantweb digital ecosystem, optimized with AspenTech, represents a next-generation IIoT platform to help their customers optimize operations and meet business and sustainability goals,“ said James Johnson, managing director at IoT Breakthrough. “Emerson’s robust suite of sensors, software and control technologies are empowering organizations to ‘See, Decide, Act and Optimize’ like never before, and we are thrilled to congratulate the Emerson team for taking home our marquee ‘Industrial IoT Company of the Year’ award in the 7th annual IoT Breakthrough Awards program.” 