Siemens, Seneca Polytechnic partner to equip next-gen leaders with advanced tools and training Seneca Polytechnic and Siemens have announced the latest chapter in their long-term partnership to provide students with industry-standard tools and training. Beginning this academic year, students in Seneca’s Faculty of Applied Science & Engineering Technology will benefit from a Siemens donation of a sophisticated virtual reality (VR) manufacturing simulation kit and 25 seats of Tecnomatix from the Siemens Xcelerator portfolio of industry software. “Our valued partnership with Siemens continues to strengthen experiential learning opportunities at Seneca Polytechnic,” said David Agnew, Seneca president. “This generous donation will help our students access innovative technology, enhancing their ability to graduate career- and world-ready.” The professional virtual reality (VR) equipment enables students to experience the Industry 4.0 environment, including technologies such as digital twins, the industrial metaverse and virtual commissioning. The Tecnomatix manufacturing academic bundle software gives students access to the same technology that companies around the world depend on every day to develop and simulate manufacturing processes in a wide variety of industries including automotive, aerospace, machinery, shipbuilding and high-tech electronics. Graduates with this type of software training are highly recruited candidates for advanced technology jobs, notes Siemens in a press statement. “Giving students access to immersive VR environments and industry-standard software will help to reshape how schools train Canada’s future workforce,” says David Wilson, vice-president and country manager Canada at Siemens Digital Industries Software. “We’re proud of our partnership with Seneca and our shared commitment to providing students with the hands-on skills to secure internship and job opportunities within a variety of industry sectors.” Seneca and Siemens reportedly have a strong history of partnership. Since 2016, Seneca students have benefitted from the Siemens Mechatronic Systems Certification Program, offered at Seneca in Ontario’s first Mechatronics Simulation and Demonstration Centre. Siemens is also a founding supporter of the Centre for Innovation, Technology and Entrepreneurship at Seneca’s Newnham Campus. 