RS Group announces changes to its leadership team RS Group, parent company of Allied Electronics & Automation, shares that Lindsley Ruth has stepped down from his position as CEO due to personal reasons. Ruth’s decision is aligned with the recommendation of the company’s board. Ruth will be available to the boar if required over the next twelve months, equal to the length of his notice period. David Egan, chief financial officer, is leading the group as acting CEO. Egan is supported by a strong management team until the process to find a permanent CEO is concluded. “Lindsley has led the turnaround of an underperforming business and, working with the wider team, has created a strong vision and purpose for our company. RS Group is now a confident organization full of talented people, aligned behind a clear strategy focused on delivering profitable growth and market share gains. On behalf of the Board and everyone at RS Group I would like to thank Lindsley for his many achievements and wish him happiness, health and every future success,” said board chair Rona Fairhead. She added, “The success of RS Group has been a function of a clear strategy and the hard work of our high-performing leaders and people throughout the business, united behind our purpose-led culture which resonates with customers and suppliers alike. We are delivering ongoing outperformance, as illustrated in our recent interim results, and see significant opportunities to continue to take market share and drive high-quality profitable growth. The Board has every confidence in our people maintaining and building on our momentum and we thank David Egan and everyone in our fantastic team for their ongoing focus and commitment to deliver our strategy.” “I am proud to have led RS Group for over seven years. We have come a long way, and while the time is right for me to step away, I could not be prouder to see the great people in this business outperform and pursue the opportunities ahead. I would like to thank all my colleagues at RS Group for their dedication, support, and enthusiasm in driving RS Group forwards, building on the success we have achieved together,” said Ruth. 