Zebra Technologies announces leadership transition; names Bill Burns as next CEO Zebra Technologies named Bill Burns, currently chief product and solutions officer, as its next CEO. Effective from March 1, 2023, Burns will also become a member of the company’s board of directors. Current CEO Anders Gustafsson will transition to become executive chair of the Zebra Technologies board. “This leadership transition is the successful culmination of the board of directors’ multi-year succession planning process,” said Michael Smith, Zebra’s board chair. As part of these leadership changes, Smith will become Zebra’s lead independent director. Burns has more than 30 years of experience in the technology sector and has served as CEO at two other companies prior to joining Zebra Technologies. Throughout his career, he has maintained a strong focus on culture, talent and innovation. Burns has been an integral part of Zebra’s executive leadership team for the past seven years and has served in his current role as Zebra’s chief product and solutions officer for nearly five years. During this time, Burns has extended Zebra’s market share leadership and profitability across its core businesses while entering adjacent and expansion markets, delivered on the company’s Enterprise Asset Intelligence vision and strengthened Zebra’s strategic relationships with its customers and partners. “The need to digitize operations remains a strategic focus for our customers globally. Now more than ever, our customers need our solutions to improve workflows across their broader supply chains,” said Gustafsson. “Bill is the right leader to continue to advance our vision and further elevate Zebra as a trusted advisor to our customers and partners in our vibrant core as well as our high-growth adjacent and expansion markets.” After 15 years as Zebra’s CEO, Gustafsson was appointed to lead the Zebra Technologies board as executive chair. Gustafsson is the second Zebra CEO in its more than 50-year history. He developed a strong bench of talent who will continue to advance the company’s vision of Enterprise Asset Intelligence, helping ensure every front-line worker and asset at the edge is visible, connected and fully optimized. “Anders has created a strong, inclusive culture based on our company values. I am committed to building on this momentum to attract, develop and retain the best talent globally,” said Burns. “I look forward to driving Zebra’s continued growth and further advancing our strategic vision. I’m excited about the future and the opportunities to continue to support our customers as they digitize and automate their environments.” 