Allied Electronics & Automation adds new suppliers to enhance product offerings Allied Electronics & Automation has 12 new suppliers to better serve its industrial and commercial customers. The new suppliers further expanded its connectivity, electronic components, PLC & HMI, industrial controls and lighting and indication product portfolios. Allied expanded its connectivity portfolio with the addition of more than 300 products from HUBER+SUHNER and Mencom Corporation. HUBER+SUHNER is a global supplier of electrical and optical connectivity solutions for radio frequency, fibre optic, and low-frequency applications in the industrial, communications and transportation markets. Newly stocked products include high-quality connectors, wire and cable, electronic components and tools and hardware. Mencom is a supplier of high-quality, cost-effective, custom-made and off-the-shelf electrical connectivity solutions for industrial electronics applications. Newly stocked products include wire and cable, connectors and sensor junction blocks. Allied expanded its electronic components portfolio with new products from Siretta, a developer and supplier of IoT products and software solutions designed for industrial 2G, 3G, 4G, NB-IoT and LTE Cat M cellular applications. Newly stocked products include antennas, wire and cable, connectors and signal analyzers engineered to support frequencies spanning 150MHz to 6GHz. Allied expanded its portfolio of PLCs and HMIs with the addition of KUNBUS, which develops industrial communication products designed to support the steady growth of Fieldbus and industrial ethernet networks in the automation, process and manufacturing industries. KUNBUS offers a single source for standardized Fieldbus solutions, including Profibus, CANopen, and DeviceNet products; Industrial Ethernet solutions, including PROFINET, Ethernet/IP, SERCOS, and EtherCAT products; and development, manufacturing and logistics services. Allied expanded its industrial controls and mechanical power transmission portfolios with the addition of precision bearings from Nachi America. Nachi bearings are used in applications spanning industrial equipment to automobiles. Allied also added seven other suppliers to enhance its lighting and indication product portfolios. 