Eclipse Foundation releases Sparkplug 3.0 specification The Eclipse Foundation, an open source software foundation, in collaboration with the Eclipse Sparkplug Working Group, released the Sparkplug 3.0 specification. Sparkplug is an open software specification. It allows mission-critical operational technology (OT) clients to use industry standards, including MQTT, to integrate data from their applications, sensors, devices and gateways with most Industrial Internet Of Things (IIoT) infrastructure. The Sparkplug 3.0 specification is the first version of the specification managed under the Eclipse Foundation specification process. It also represents the proper formalization of the specification over the v2.2 release. The goals for Sparkplug 3.0 are to leverage Eclipse Foundation’s open and vendor-neutral specification process to clarify ambiguities in the v2.2 version and add explicit normative statements while maintaining backward compatibility. In addition, the Sparkplug specification has begun the process of transposition as an international standard at ISO/IEC. To support this standardization effort, the Eclipse Foundation has obtained the status of Publicly Available Specification (PAS) submitter from ISO/IEC’s Joint Technology Committee (JTC) 1. The PAS process is a fast-track process enabling a specification to be approved as an ISO/IEC standard in less than a year. This avoids the full-length process that can take up to four years. “Today’s release of Sparkplug 3.0 represents a major milestone,” said Mike Milinkovich, executive director for the Eclipse Foundation. “This march to Sparkplug’s transformation into an official industry standard has come from significant industry-wide collaboration that continues under the auspices of the Sparkplug Working Group. We look forward to continuing to foster new partnerships to advance the adoption of MQTT and Sparkplug in the industry.” The Sparkplug Working Group is simultaneously launching a product compatibility program for Sparkplug implementers. 