Allied Electronics adds Schneider Electric’s Altivar ATS480 soft starters to product lineup Allied Electronics & Automation has added Schneider Electric’s new Altivar ATS480 soft starters. According to an Allied press statement, the product is designed to support widespread digitization efforts in the industrial automation industry. Soft starters are solid-state devices that enable a gentle ramp-up to full-speed motor operation to protect AC motors from the damage that can be caused by the initial inrush of current associated with motor startup. The new soft starters feature the same hardware platform as Schneider’s ATS48 series soft starters. Additional features include digital enhancements, improved cybersecurity capabilities and integration with Schneider’s EcoStruxure platform. Digital enhancements to the new ATS480 series soft starters include remote commissioning capabilities, embedded QR codes that reveal parameters for on-site troubleshooting, a text keypad capable of displaying warnings and history, and a broad range of compatible Ethernet and serial communication bus protocols, including Modbus TCP, EtherNet/IP, PROFINET, EtherCAT, Modbus RTU, CANopen, PROFIBUS DP and DeviceNet. In terms of cybersecurity, the new ATS480 soft starters feature secure boot and firmware upgrades, threat intelligence capabilities that can generate security reports and restrict or disable ports and services and user account authorization. ATS480 series soft starters are torque controlled and equipped with torque ramp, dynamic braking, and DC injection stop modes as well as an embedded electronic thermal relay for motor protection. They are rated for operating voltages spanning 208–690V, operating current extending from 17–1,700A, and effective power ranging from 4–900kW and comply with relevant CE, cULus, CCC, UKCA, RCM, EAC, DNV, ABS, BV, and CCS standards. Ideal applications for the new ATS480 series soft starters extend from normal to heavy-duty and include economical, high-horsepower motors (>500HP), pumps, fans, compressors, saws, pulpers, agitators, mixers, grinders, crushers, refiners, presses, and material handling equipment. 