RS expands its portfolio with five new industrial suppliers RS, a trading brand of RS Group, has added five new suppliers that further augment its selection of connectivity, test and measurement and compressed air solutions for industrial applications. The five new suppliers are Techflex, ProSoft Technology, Testo, NOSHOK, and EXAIR. Techflex engineers and manufactures a wide range of braided sleeving products used to bundle and protect cables, wires and hoses in industrial, biomedical, aerospace and automotive applications. The company’s product portfolio includes both general-purpose and high-tech specialty products manufactured to ISO 9001-2015 standards and backed by 58 years of experience. ProSoft Technology designs and manufactures industrial connectivity solutions that enable dissimilar automation control equipment to communicate and transfer critical control data through wired and wireless connectivity, allowing customers with legacy equipment to leverage production data for decision-making. Ideal for use in IIoT networks, ProSoft solutions support 160 combinations of real-time protocol conversion to help customers overcome modernization and migration challenges, improve connectivity, increase production, decrease downtime, and reduce operating and maintenance costs. ProSoft solutions also reportedly provide customers with industrial-grade cybersecurity and are backed by more than 30 years of experience in wireless connectivity and industrial automation. Testo designs, develops and manufactures portable test and measurement instrumentation and solutions for commercial, residential and industrial HVAC, chemical manufacturing, food service and production, pharmaceutical and biotechnology applications. NOSHOK is a global supplier of innovative measurement solutions optimized for use in oil and gas, fluid power, general industrial, industrial automation, chemical processing, manufacturing, water and wastewater and food and beverage applications. Products include liquid-filled pressure gauges, pressure and temperature switches, industrial resistance temperature detectors, bimetal thermometers, hydraulic load cells, needle valves, manifold valves, diaphragm seals, and pressure and temperature transmitters, transducers, and indicators manufactured to ISO 9001:2015 quality standards and backed by industry-leading warranties and more than 55 years of experience. EXAIR has 40 years of experience engineering and manufacturing compressed-air-operated products designed to solve common problems and improve overall efficiency in industrial facilities. Solutions include vortex tubes and applied products equipped with vortex tubes, air amplifiers, air knives, air-operated vacuums, ionizing products for static elimination, ultrasonic leak detectors, and liquid atomizing nozzles for product cooling, coating, cleaning and painting. 