Comau, Rockwell Automation present unified robot control solutions at Automation Fair Comau and Rockwell Automation are showcasing the benefits of the full integration of Comau’s articulated robots with the unified robot control platform by Rockwell Automation at the Automation Fair on November 16 and 17 in Chicago. The companies launched their collaboration in 2021. Since then, they have been working together to leverage the power of robotic solutions to help businesses increase the speed of innovation and maximize their manufacturing efficiencies. According to a press statement, integrating Rockwell Automation components and Comau’s robots, using one PLC for controlling both, eliminates the need for additional robot programming skills. The use of one programming language, the integration of components and the use of one environment for a continuously enhanced robot applications library provide customers with a modular and scalable solution. This, according to the companies, reduces the total cost of operations and improves work efficiency. “The integration of Comau’s robots with such a widely used unified PLC environment has allowed us to develop a powerful palletizing and depalletizing solution for the food industry that can be easily deployed at our customer sites, helping improve their productivity while reducing infrastructure costs,” explained Horia Saulean, DCC Automation. In addition, the solutions are designed in a way that companies of all sizes can control one or more robots via their existing PLC environment. This eliminates the need for a dedicated controller for every robot. Thus, fewer components are needed on the manufacturing floor. Comau and Rockwell further explain in the statement that the unified solution simplifies the supply chain complexity and serviceability as the full integration allows the sourcing of most components and services by one source. “The first concrete results of Comau’s ongoing collaboration with Rockwell Automation are allowing us to simplify the design, programming and management of high-performance robotic applications,” explained Nicole Clement, chief marketing officer at Comau, “This enables us to offer the market an easier and more productive approach to automation. It also creates added-value for general industry customers who will benefit from the process optimization and agility that a fully integrated robotic solution provides.” 