Allied Electronics president Ken Bradley moves on; Douglas Moody named interim president Allied Electronics & Automation bid farewell to former president Ken Bradley, who has left the company to pursue a new opportunity at the end of October. RS Group’s chief services officer, Douglas Moody, is expanding his role on an interim basis while the company identifies a permanent replacement. “As I step away from this business after a phenomenal 18-year run, I am proud to have had the opportunity to work with the finest team in the business and am thankful for the great support and partnerships we continue to have with our customers and suppliers,” said Bradley. “I leave Allied positioned for growth and in capable hands with my good friend and colleague Doug Moody, and I’m looking forward to seeing what’s coming next for this great company.” Bradley joined the company in early 2004 and held roles in supply chain and sales before being promoted to president of Allied in 2019. “During his tenure as president, Ken built a talented leadership team that led the transformation of the Americas business,” said Lindsley Ruth, CEO of RS Group. “People and culture have been placed at the heart of the organization, and the results speak for themselves, as we’ve seen a strong growth across the board.” Moody joined RS Group as the chief services officer, reporting to CEO Lindsley Ruth, in January of this year. In this role, he has worked to accelerate the development and execution of a value-added services strategy to better serve customer needs and drive business growth. His previous experience includes large profit and loss leadership across multiple industries and diverse markets worldwide. He is also well-versed in bringing businesses together and harmoniously leveraging their product and service offerings to deliver exceptional customer success and business performance. “Since joining Allied and RS Group a year ago, I have witnessed the company’s incredible culture, vision for the future, and resulting growth,” said Moody. “I’m looking forward to strengthening the outstanding partnerships Allied has with its suppliers and customers by expanding and delivering our solutions efficiently, effectively, and digitally. I want to thank Ken for his inspiring leadership and wish him continued success in his next role.” 