Omron Automation names Revtech new Certified Systems Integrator partner Omron Automation Americas has named Revtech as a new partner in its Certified Systems Integrator program. Based near Quebec City, Revtech provides robotic and automation solutions for companies of various sizes across industries. Revtech’s determination is unmatched when it comes to providing its customers with the industry’s most high-performing yet easy-to-use systems, says Omron in a press statement. Revtech focuses on production improvement, ROI and easy technological transfer to users. It recently designed, built and implemented a complex, multi-robot production cell using Omron robots, Sysmac control, and high-resolution FH vision, as a  package for the user. For Omron, systems integrators play a critical role in designing and delivering fully integrated automation solutions. They also possess industry and application expertise in implementing the latest technologies from Omron and providing turnkey system solutions. “Our certified system integrator program provides end-users peace of mind when procuring automation solutions,” says Peter Brouwer, vice-president of sales at Omron Automation Americas. “These companies have proven expertise when it comes to implementing our latest technologies, and they have full access to local training and resources needed to successfully deliver fully integrated automation solutions.” Revtech has collaborated with Omron since the early days of the company. Omron’s product portfolio allowed Revtech to deploy robot and automation solutions across various industries to help clients produce more and help those facing labour shortages to keep up with productivity. The Omron Certified Systems Integrator program matches solution providers with the technology, training and resources required to deliver competitive solutions. The combined strength of this relationship solves customer challenges today while enabling more efficient, fully integrated systems that will successfully weather future demands, explains Omron. 