German Technology Day 2022: Snapshots from the Toronto edition The Toronto edition of German Technology Day 2022 was the busiest one yet. Held on October 20 at Humber College’s Barrett Centre for Technology Innovation, the event showcased automation technologies and solutions from 15 participating German companies. Beckhoff, Eplan, Festo, Kuka, Murrelektronik, Phoenix Contact, Pilz, Rittal, Samson, SEW – EURODRIVE, SICK Sensor Intelligence, Wago, Weidmuller and Wieland came together to host the eventful day. CLICK ARROWS TO ADVANCE IMAGES Desiree Carter, marketing and communications head for SICK Sensor Intelligence, welcomes attendees in Toronto to German Technology Day 2022. (Photo: Sukanya Ray Ghosh) Sabine Sparwasser, 
Ambassador of the Federal Republic of Germany to Canada, shares her opening remarks. (Photo: Sukanya Ray Ghosh) Thomas E. Schultze, Consul General of the Federal Republic of Germany
in Toronto, presents his opening address. (Photo: Sukanya Ray Ghosh) Kelly Jackson, vice-president of external affairs and professional learning at Humber College, welcomes the attendees to the Barrett Centre for Technology and Innovation. (Photo: Sukanya Ray Ghosh) The innovation hub featuring automation solutions from all 15 participating companies, working in tandem. (Photo: Sukanya Ray Ghosh) The busy show floor buzzes with excitement at the Toronto edition of GTD 2022. (Photo: Madalene Arias) David Roberts, regional sales manager at Weiland, interacts with a booth visitor. (Photo: Madalene Arias) Jonathan Pysanczyn, senior technical sales representative at PILZ Automation Safety Canada, mans the booth at GTD 2022. (Photo: Madalene Arias) (Left) Matthias Gast, sales manager of digital solutions with Jason Mapplebeck, vice-president of sales and marketing at the Samson booth. (Photo: Madalene Arias) (Left) Beckhoff’s Paul Pierre, regional sales manager for GTA and Peter Zhang, regional sales manager for GTA, take a quick break to pose for the camera. (Photo: Madalene Arias) David Dolezal, business development manager – electric automation of Festo Canada at GTD 2022’s Toronto event. (Photo: Madalene Arias) Raphael Pili-Pili, account manager for Eplan Canada in front of the Rittal-Eplan display. (Photo: Madalene Arias) SICK’s barcode reader at German Technology Day 2022 (Photo: Madalene Arias) KUKA Robotics Canada at German Technology Day, Humber College, 2022. (Photo: Madalene Arias) Colin Cartwright, system sales manager at Murrelektronik Canada shows off the company’s solutions at GTD 2022. (Photo: Madalene Arias) Weidmuller presents its solutions to booth visitor at GTD 2022. (Photo: Sukanya Ray Ghosh) Phoenix Contact booth visitors listen in rapt attention at German Technology Day 2022. (Photo: Madalene Arias) The buzzing show floor at German Technology Day’s Toronto event. (Photo: Madalene Arias) Sabine Sparwasser, Ambassador of the Federal Republic of Germany to Canada, and Thomas E. Schultze, Consul General of the Federal Republic of Germany in Toronto were in attendance. Both dignitaries presented opening remarks and shared their valuable insights on German-Canadian technology collaboration. The Barrett Centre at Humber College was the perfect venue to discuss technology. A hub of innovation and research, the centre plays a crucial role in preparing the future workforce for an advanced manufacturing landscape. 