Labour shortage in manufacturing harming Canadian economy, finds CME survey Canadian Manufacturers & Exporters’ (CME) annual labour survey results show that labour and skills shortages are harming the Canadian economy. CME explains that in the last year alone, these shortages have resulted in economic losses totalling nearly $13 billion. This figure is calculated from the responses of 563 manufacturers from across the country. Over the past year, 62 percent of manufacturers have lost or turned down contracts and faced production delays due to a lack of workers. This has resulted in $7.2 billion in lost sales and penalties for late delivery. At the same time, 43 percent of companies have postponed or cancelled capital projects because of labour shortages, corresponding to $5.4 billion of lost investment. “Our survey confirmed what we’ve been hearing from manufacturers on the ground for a long time. Labour and skills shortages are a chronic and persistent issue for manufacturers, and they continue to limit the growth prospects of the sector. If we don’t find the workers we need, Canada’s economy will suffer”, said Dennis Darby, president and CEO of CME. Highlights from the survey are as follows: “Today, CME is calling on the government to take concrete actions now to fill the more than 85,000 vacant positions in Canada’s manufacturing sector within a year,” said Darby. “We’re asking for government action on four fronts: providing more support for automation, bringing in more economic class immigrants and enacting reforms that reduce backlogs and improve processing times, providing employer-led training benefits to help upskill and reskill the workforce, and renewing and increasing funding for programs that encourage persons from underrepresented groups to seek a career in manufacturing.” CME stated in a release that it will continue its direct engagement with all levels of government on this critical issue, pushing for programs and policy reforms that enable the manufacturing industry to grow and thrive. CME will also continue to regularly survey its members and measure the impact of labour shortages on the industry. The complete results of the survey are available here. 