Omron names Génik as its new Certified Systems Integrator partner Omron Automation Americas has added Quebec-based Génik as a new partner in its Certified Systems Integrator program. Génik offers solutions to end users using its G-KDM (Génik – Kaizen Design Method). With its solutions, it helps its customers eliminate waste, increase quality and reduce cycle times, among other things. “Génik is proud to collaborate with Omron who is a leader in the industrial automation industry. Since our custom solutions are often a first, we always use the highest quality components on the market to make sure we get the best performance and reliability for the needs of our customers. Omron’s service has always added value to our projects, making them a partner of choice in our engineering team,” says Patrick Gariepy, vice-president of strategy at Génik. The systems integrator brings in its expertise and credibility to benefit customers looking to implement fully integrated solutions in their factories. Génik designs and builds machines from raw metal all the way to the complete integration of Omron’s full Sysmac Platform across various types of applications. Omron explains that given today’s industry trends, production challenges and labour shortage concerns, Génik will be an excellent partner for end users in various industries to engage with to improve system performance. “Our certified system integrator program provides end-users peace of mind when procuring automation solutions,” says Peter Brouwer, vice-president of sales, Omron Automation Americas. “These companies have proven expertise when it comes to implementing our latest technologies, and they have full access to local training and resources needed to successfully deliver fully integrated automation solutions.” The Omron Certified Systems Integrator program matches expert solution providers with the technology, training and resources required to deliver competitive solutions. The combined strength of this relationship helps solve customer challenges while enabling more efficient, fully integrated systems that will successfully weather future demands. For Omron, systems integrators play a critical role in designing and delivering fully integrated automation solutions. They also possess industry and application expertise in implementing the latest technologies from Omron, states the company. 