Bosch Rexroth to expand North American operations, increase factory automation offering Bosch Rexroth recently announced its plans to expand operations in North America. The company will move its linear and assembly technology manufacturing facility to a new location in Charlotte. The company stated it has outgrown its present facility in Charlotte due to significant growth in its factory automation business. It is therefore leasing and outfitting a new, build-to-suit location at 409 Tyvola Rd in Charlotte, North Carolina. “We are excited to experience the growth that necessitates this move, and we are proud to remain within Charlotte,” remarked president and CEO Greg Gumbs. The new facility will be aligned with Bosch Rexroth’s vision of a factory of the future. The company’s operations in Charlotte are specifically dedicated to custom assembly and linear motion technology solutions tailored to meet its customer’s variable needs. “We are eager to grow our capabilities and reaffirm our commitment to the success of our distribution and end customers in North America,” added Geert van der Zalm, vice-president of sales for factory automation in North America. “It is not often that a company gets to build its factory environment from scratch, and we are in the unique position to do just that, while creating a showcase environment of what a factory of the future can be today.” The new facility’s total footprint of 227,500 square feet will expand the company’s current manufacturing capabilities by over 25 percent. The location will have additional room for future expansion. Approximately 200,000 square feet area is to be dedicated to lean manufacturing and logistics. This will provide enough room to optimize flexible manufacturing for changing demands. The remaining 27,500 square feet of space will be dedicated to a customer showroom and innovation centre, training facilities, collaboration space, office space and a flexible galleria that can be used for co-working space, dining, townhall meetings and other activities. Outside, there will be areas developed for walking paths and spaces to sit and connect with nature. Michael Schmitt, senior vice-president of technical and engineering in North America expressed his passion for the new development saying, “The new building will provide plenty of space for research and development that inspires our associates and brings forward innovations that will help shape the future of manufacturing automation. It is truly an exciting time to be in this market!” 