CME applauds supply chain task force recommendations; calls for immediate action Canadian Manufacturers & Exporters (CME) released a statement applauding the recommendations in the final National Supply Chain Task Force. The association welcomed the call from transportation minister Omar Alghabra for a national supply chain strategy. “For over two years Canadian manufacturers have been dealing with massive supply chain disruptions. This report demonstrates the precarious state of Canada’s transportation networks and the impacts this has had on manufacturers’ ability to get their goods to market. Industry cannot withstand these disruptions forever, and we call on the government to quickly enact the recommendations outlined in the task force’s report. We must preserve Canada’s reputation as a reliable trade partner in order to attract future manufacturing investment,” said Dennis Darby, president and CEO of CME. CME further noted that results of a recent (CME) survey indicated that 9 out of 10 manufacturers are facing supply chain problems. Sixty percent of those respondents also qualified the disruptions as “severe”. Labour shortages, both in the manufacturing and transportation industries, are a major cause of the supply chain challenges. CME explained that it welcomes the specific call in the report for immediate action on labour shortages, and for a long-term plan for finding the workers these two industries will need going forward. CME has been actively working with the government over the past year, due to the major impact of supply chain disruptions on Canada’s manufacturing industry. It has also worked directly with the task force. The association explained that it is very happy to see its priorities reflected in the final recommendations. “This report and its recommendations are a good first step towards fixing supply chain bottlenecks and making Canada a better place to do business. We applaud the Minister and the task force for their work and manufacturers look forward to continuing to work with the government,” concluded Darby. 