NGen, Trillium Network release new report on digital twins in manufacturing Next Generation Manufacturing Canada (NGen) and Trillium Network for Advanced Manufacturing jointly published a report on digital twins. The report is titled Digital Twins in Manufacturing: Lessons from Canadian Manufacturers and Technology Providers. The report builds on previous work done by NGen. It includes terms of reference and background knowledge on the subject. The foreword to the report also states that it includes case studies of three manufacturing companies in Canada – Laval International, CenterLine (Windsor) Limited and Avcorp. The three manufacturing companies have recently adopted digital twin technologies. Insights from technology providers that support digital twins adoption are also included in the document. The foreword explains that the report aims at leveraging lessons learnt from these manufacturers and technology providers to further explain the benefits and applications of digital twin technology. Both organizations hope that these insights will encourage and prepare manufacturers considering digital twins and other related advanced manufacturing technologies for their facilities. The foreword further states: “Both of our organizations wholeheartedly agree that the future of Canadian manufacturing depends on the ability of companies to adopt these technologies. We believe that we are close to a tipping point, whereby companies that are willing to invest in advanced production technologies–technologies that are increasingly necessary to compete and achieve business objectives–will prosper, while those that lag behind will not. NGen and the Trillium Network are but two of the non-profit organizations in Canada whose mandate is to support the growth and competitiveness of advanced manufacturing. We, along with our public and private sector partners throughout the country, will continue to collaborate on initiatives related to the development and adoption of advanced production technologies. Please do not hesitate to contact us to learn more.” The report is available in both English and French. 