Igus gains majority stake in Commonplace Robotics to expand its low-cost automation portfolio Igus is expanding its presence in the low-cost automation market with its recent acquisition of majority shares in Commonplace Robotics. Commonplace Robotics is a systems integrator headquartered in Germany. The company specializes in intuitive control systems and software and power electronics for robotics. Both have been cooperating intensively for six years. Among other things, they have developed the igus Robot Control, which supplements igus’ low-cost kinematics made from high-performance plastics. Commonplace Robotics was founded 11 years ago by Christian Meyer. The goal was to make the integration and operation of robots cost-effective and easy. This makes the robots “commonplace,” so that they can be used anywhere. Meyer approached igus in 2016 because he found that igus robotic kinematics matched his vision of “commonplace”. Since then, the two companies have jointly developed products such as the iRC igus Robot Control, an actuator, and the ReBeL cobot. New developments can be quickly implemented thanks to the vertical integration of Commonplace Robotics. “Many customers are surprised that they can implement simple robot tasks in just 30 minutes without any programming knowledge,” says Frank Blase, CEO of igus GmbH. “We are very pleased that, following intensive collaboration over the last six years, an even more focused approach to low-cost automation is now possible.” With this acquisition, Commonplace Robotics and igus are combining their strengths. “We are looking forward to exciting technological projects with igus. The RBTX platform for low-cost robotics, operated by igus, brings new requirements from customers from all areas of the industry to our laboratories every day,” stated Meyer. “Much of this can be implemented quickly, especially as we expand with this investment.” The latest product of the collaboration is the ReBeL cobot which includes the control system. The actuator, also available as an individual component, combines igus’ plastic know-how in the gearbox with the power electronics and software from Commonplace Robotics. With six axes, the ReBeL can handle a payload of up to two kilograms with a range of 664 millimetres with a net weight of 8.2 kilograms. 