German Technology Day 2022 to be bigger and better, say participating companies The fourth edition of German Technology Day (GTD) taking place in Toronto and Montreal this year is expected to be bigger and better than previous years. Fifteen prominent companies with expertise in automation and advanced manufacturing are coming together for the 2022 event, taking place on October 20 at Humber College, Toronto, and on November 3 at Plaza Centre-Ville in Montreal. All fifteen participating companies have strong Canadian presence, with their headquarters located in Germany This year’s participating companies include Beckhoff, Eplan, Festo, Kuka, Murrelektronik, Phoenix Contact, Pilz, Rittal, Samson, SEW – EURODRIVE, SICK Sensor Intelligence, Wago, Weidmuller and Wieland. The host companies are putting together a reimagined showcase that offers interactive pathways for participation. The event is targeted toward design/engineers, technicians, system integrators, panel builders, supply chain professionals and all members of the industrial and IT manufacturing and electrical sectors. Presentations during the event will include industry trends and thought leadership for all in the industry. The GTD hosts are organising a grand contest during the event for attendees. All participants at the Toronto and Montreal events can enter the contest to win prizes worth $2500, by visiting each booth and completing a “passport”. The hosts will conduct a draw from all submissions and offer cash prizes to the lucky winners. The winners will be notified via email after the event. The host companies are putting together a unique showcase of products this year. Visitors will be able to witness the integration of technology and learn how to find cost-effective and sustainable solutions that can work in any environment, saving valuable resources and time. Additionally, attendees will be treated to several integrated demos designed and built specifically for this event, combining leading solutions from each company. The theme of GTD 2022 is ‘The Future of Automation: Digital, Sustainable, Efficient’. In today’s ever-changing and evolving scenario, the need for automation is more important than ever to keep up with the challenges the industry is facing. The GTD organizers note that they must collaborate and innovate to achieve the highest levels of digitalization, sustainability and efficiency. This is to assure their customers that together, they can collaborate to find exclusive, eco-friendly and effective solutions to unique challenges, for today and for the future. The GTD events in Toronto and Montreal will commence with greetings from the senior members of the German Consul. Following that, the hosts will introduce the German Technology Day 2022 and offer an overview of the fifteen companies that have joined hands for this year’s show. This will be followed by engaging presentations and workshops from each of the partners that sync with the main theme while highlighting some of their key solutions for Industry 4.0. Click here for the agenda. Each company will share their latest energy-efficient solutions and introduce attendees to some of its most innovative technology at individual booths. Attendees will have access to a range of videos, literature and case studies on the various solutions. Representatives will be available all throughout the day at the booths to introduce booth visitors to their latest products and answer questions. Don’t forget to visit the media booths where GTD Media Partners will be featured. Each of these industry-leading media partners will introduce attendees to various aspects of the German Technology Day including articles, interviews, videos and coverage of the event. 