Allied Electronics & Automation adds new suppliers to its network Allied Electronics & Automation added five new suppliers with stock on shelves. The five new suppliers — Stewart Connector, Keystone Technologies, MicroCare, Rice Lake Weighing Systems and Astrodyne TDI — add to Allied’s selection of connectivity, lighting, facility maintenance, weighing equipment and filtering products. Stewart Connector is a global Bel group company that offers a wide range of Ethernet connectivity components, including passive jacks, modular plugs, I/O connectors, harsh-environment connectors, specialty connectors and cable assemblies. Solutions include USB, M12, RJ45, and 38999 connectors, a Cat 6a cable splicer, a DIN-rail module, shielded, board-mounted jacks and punch-down blocks. Bel designs and manufactures an array of connectors, cable assemblies, discrete components, magnetics, power supplies and circuit-protection products engineered to power, protect, and connect electronic circuits in a wide range of applications. Rice Lake Weighing Systems is a global supplier of measurement and automated process control solutions, offering more than 40,000 products and solutions. Manufactured in an ISO 9001:2015-certified facility, the solutions are backed by more than 75 years of R&D and technical expertise. Solutions include calibration weights and metrology services, dimensioning systems, forklift and pallet jacks, conveyor systems, instrumentation, load cells and overhead weighing systems, among other things. Application areas include manufacturing and aviation, among other wide range of industries. Keystone Technologies designs and manufactures lighting and lighting components. MicroCare and its sub-brands, MicroCare Medical and Sticklers, formulate and blend cleaning, coating, and lubricating solutions optimized for use in the electronics, metal fabricating, medical, fibre optics, and facility maintenance industries. Astrodyne TDI designs and manufactures power and EMI, EMC and RF filtering solutions for applications in the aerospace, industrial, medical, military and semiconductor manufacturing markets. 