Inductive Automation announces changes to its C-level leadership team Inductive Automation announced changes to its C-level leadership team to support the company’s continued growth and expansion. Travis Cox is the new chief technology evangelist. Kevin McClusky is taking over as the new chief technology architect. Jason Waits is the company’s new chief information security officer. Company CEO and founder Steve Hechtman and COO Wendi-Lynn Hechtman announced in July that they are delegating their C-level roles to focus on their roles as the executive chairmen of the board of directors. These latest leadership changes are aligned with this decision. Inductive Automation’s key product, Ignition by Inductive Automation, is an industrial application platform with tools for building solutions in human-machine interface (HMI), supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) and the Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT). As chief technology evangelist, Travis Cox’s goal will be to raise awareness of industry trends, modern technologies, open standards and the many possibilities of the Ignition platform. Cox will communicate through a variety of formats, including presenting at conferences and events, meetings with industry leaders and providing media interviews. “I have never seen anyone walk away from a meeting with Travis not being more convinced and enthusiastic about our software, and I can’t wait to see him dive into this role,” says Inductive Automation CEO Colby Clegg. As chief technology architect, Kevin McClusky will work to help drive widespread adoption of Ignition, work closely with some of the world’s most innovative companies, provide long-term architectural guidance, and provide vital feedback to the CEO and CTO about customer needs, customer and industry trends, new technology adoption and any identified threats or risks to the company. “Kevin has guided many, many customers towards robust enterprise-wide Ignition adoption. As we push deeper into expansive distributed and enterprise solutions, Kevin will work in his new role to help ensure that our customers, technology, and company are well-equipped to meet the needs of modern industry,” says Clegg. As CTE and CTA, Travis Cox and Kevin McClusky will work closely with Inductive Automation’s chief strategy officer, Don Pearson, to expand the market and partnership growth of the expanding Ignition ecosystem of solutions. As chief information security officer, Jason Waits will maintain a central and high-level view into the needs of Inductive Automation’s entire ecosystem, from the company to its products and everything in between. “Information Security is truly one of the most crucial topics in our industry, and having Jason in this role is a clear indication of how IA is dedicated to leading the industry in making cyber security a priority,” says Clegg. Cox, McClusky and Waits are the first individuals to hold their respective new roles at the company. All three of them will work alongside the other C-level leaders, under the guidance of the board of directors. 