Hybrid EF|A 2022 event to focus on modularization, standardization and automation The EPLAN Forum for Automated Engineering or EF|A event, hosted by EPLAN, will take place in hybrid format on September 28 and 29. It will focus on modularization, standardization and automation. The live event will be held in Düsseldorf and the online version livestream around the world. Anyone interested can network with other industry experts during the EF|A Forum. EPLAN created a special networking space as it believes that the full potential of automation thrives from practical examples of it, user reports from around the world, and personal dialogue amongst attendees. International attendees can take advantage of the simultaneous translation on offer during the livestream. Presentations, workshops and hands-on sessions will provide ideas and incentives for everyone from top-level management to software users. Topics of discussion include: EPLAN’s director of go-to-market management Harold van Waardenburg says, “If you modularize your machine or plant system from the start of the development process, you’re laying the foundation for standardization.” Achenbach Buschhütten will present on the topic “Making the product fit for digitally networked value creation.”  The company successfully implemented a modular construction kit. Odego CEO Sandra Szech will talk about “How to make building block development a success” and share her experiences with the methodical development and evaluation of modular systems, amongst other topics. The companies Aartec Engineering B.V. and Sollich KG will also share insights into practical applications for people attending both on-location and online. Additional companies, including Grundfos and CadCabel, will also share their practical applications with EF|A attendees. EPLAN experts will supplement these examples with methods and strategies for modularization, standardization and for automated engineering using the eBuild, EPLAN Cogineer and EEC solutions. 