Vention receives investment support to advance automation in Quebec’s manufacturing industry Fonds de solidarité FTQ is investing US$15 million in Vention, a Quebec-based company that offers a fully integrated manufacturing automation platform (MAP). The investment will help the company further automation adoption in Quebec’s manufacturing industry. “Supporting the right technological transition means investing in SMEs, so that they can adopt the new technologies that will make them more productive and competitive while stimulating the creation of value-added jobs. Investing in companies like Vention helps manufacturing SMEs take the right steps. We are therefore proud to support Etienne Lacroix, Max Windisch and the entire Vention team, who offer Quebec manufacturers the solutions they need to meet future challenges,” said Christian G. Brosseau, vice-president of Private Equity and Impact Investing, Structuring Capital, Energy and Environment at Fonds de solidarité FTQ. Vention recently invested in its Montreal offices to create its Experience Centre, aimed at facilitating access to advanced industrial automation technologies for local businesses. The Vention Experience Centre offers free training and demonstrations for Quebec manufacturers of all sizes. These one- or two-day workshops cover the entire automation process, from design to operation, while enabling participants to acquire skills directly applicable to their manufacturing sector. From this fall onwards, Vention will be making its facilities and training more available to collaborate with companies supported by the Fonds. “Democratizing industrial automation is an ambitious goal, given the $180 billion market. The Fonds de solidarité FTQ is an institution that has made an invaluable contribution to advancing the business sector in Quebec for over 30 years. We are delighted that, through this act of renewed confidence, the Fonds de solidarité FTQ is demonstrating its commitment to Quebec companies looking to automate their factories. We’re also excited to welcome other Quebec manufacturers, including those supported by the Fonds, to help them better understand the little-known field of industrial automation and robotics,” said Etienne Lacroix, CEO of Vention. For more than 30 years, the Fonds de solidarité FTQ has been actively contributing to the growth and competitiveness of Quebec companies on a global scale. Its renewed investment in Vention is aligned with the Fonds’ commitment to advancing Quebec’s industrial capabilities, creating high-value-added jobs and stimulating economic growth. Through its partners’ investments, including the Fonds de solidarité FTQ, Vention continues to develop its MAP. 