Allied Electronics expands its lineup of industrial automation and control cabinet solutions Allied Electronics & Automation added four new industrial automation and control cabinet solutions suppliers to its supplier base. The addition of Delta Electronics, KIPP, Murrplastik and OnRobot expands its offering of industrial automation and control cabinet solutions for Industry 4.0 applications. The internationally recognized companies are known for designing and developing component and equipment solutions that cater to the expansion of Industry 4.0 in the global manufacturing industry. Delta Electronics supplies energy-efficient power electronics, thermal management and industrial automation solutions. It offers energy-efficient power products, including switching power supplies. Delta also offers server power supply certified as 80 Plus Titanium — which is the highest level of the voluntary 80 Plus certification program for energy-efficient computer power supplies. Allied is now offering a range of energy-efficient, ready-to-ship Delta Electronics solutions including power products, such as AC-DC power supplies, uninterruptible power supplies and power supply accessories, motors and motor controls, thermal management solutions and human-machine interfaces (HMIs). KIPP is a global, family-owned and -managed company that leverages more than 100 years of German engineering and manufacturing experience to develop clamping tools, standard components and operating parts. Allied is now offering a range of long-lasting, ergonomic and ready-to-ship solutions from KIPP, including tools & hardware, such as adjustable ratchet handles, star grips, wing grips and cam levers and enclosure, rack and cabinet solutions, such as indexing and sprint plungers and locating pins. Murrplastik is an international company dedicated to developing and manufacturing innovative injection molded cable management, control cabinet and industrial automation products. The company has submitted more than 100 patent applications for its high-tech plastic products, including cable entry systems, cable drag chains and specialized conduits and fittings; universal marking and labeling solutions for single wires, control equipment, clamps, cables and conduits; and robotic dress packs for electronic wires and cables and hydraulic and pneumatic tubing with universally applicable fastening, conduit and protection elements. Murrplastik products are now available at Allied. OnRobot designs and develops a comprehensive range of versatile products optimized for collaborative automation applications, or cobots, in small- and mid-sized manufacturing facilities worldwide. Solutions range from the OnRobot Eyes 2.5D vision system to palletizing and analytics software and electric, vacuum and magnetic grippers to force and torque sensors and tools including screwdrivers and sander kits. OnRobot’s suite of collaborative automation solutions is compatible with most robotic equipment brands for quick integration in applications, including packaging, quality control, material handling, machine tending, assembly and surface finishing. The company’s solutions are also supported by the free Learn OnRobot e-learning platform. Allied is now offering OnRobot solutions ranging from screwdrivers to Raspberry Pi, Arduino and development tools. 