Bosch Rexroth names Steffen Haack as its new CEO Steffen Haack is the new CEO of Bosch Rexroth, as of August 1.  As a board member since January 1, 2021, Haack is responsible for the development of the two business units of industrial hydraulics. As the new CEO, Haack will keep his current responsibilities for development and the new business product area. He is now responsible for the corporate department in charge of strategy, business development and benchmarking. “I am looking forward to driving forward the dynamic development of Bosch Rexroth together with our global team: whether it is the continued development and sustainability of our products and solutions, strengthening global supply chains, the competitiveness of our company, or the further development of our strong culture,” says Haack. Haack began his career at Bosch in 1996. Since 2001, he has taken on various tasks at Bosch Rexroth, related both to factory automation and hydraulics. From 2015 to 2017, he had been a management board member. From 2017 to the end of 2021, Haack led the industrial hydraulics business unit and rejoined the board of management in January 2021. Since then, he has been responsible for the entire development activities of Bosch Rexroth and the new business product area. “I am convinced that under the leadership of Steffen Haack, Bosch Rexroth will excellently master the future challenges in the business areas of hydraulics and factory automation. Steffen Haack knows the customers and associates of Bosch Rexroth very well and is a recognized expert for customer-oriented innovation,” says Filiz Albrecht, managing director and labour director of Robert Bosch and chairwoman of the supervisory board of Bosch Rexroth. Haack takes over from Rolf Najork, who was serving as the CEO of Bosch Rexroth since 2016. Najork has also been on Robert Bosch’s board since January 2019. He will now concentrate on his role at Bosch. Regarding Najork, Albrecht adds, “I would like to thank Rolf Najork for his leadership, with which he has shaped Bosch Rexroth into a very successful part of the Bosch Group since 2016. Together with the global team, he has sustainably increased the innovation power and competitiveness of our drive and control business and has created a strong culture of customer orientation, collaboration and performance, which distinguishes Bosch Rexroth.” 