Hexagon invites start-ups in advanced manufacturing space to “digital reality” challenge Hexagon’s Manufacturing Intelligence division launched its second Sixth Sense challenge for start-ups in the advanced manufacturing space. The focus of this round is on digital reality and visualization for a sustainable future. Parth Joshi, chief product officer and chief technology officer of Hexagon’s Manufacturing Intelligence division, said, “The manufacturing metaverse will be a game-changer in how we interact with technology and create resilience to complex industry issues. However, innovation doesn’t happen in a silo, and the first Sixth Sense cohort proved the mutual benefits of bringing ambitious start-ups into our ecosystem and together reaching new answers to difficult problems. We challenge the start-up community to pitch us their best digital reality services and let us help them turn those virtual solutions into real-life commercial success and technological progress.” Applications are open for Sixth Sense’s second cohort. Start-ups with innovative technologies in advanced visualization, digital realities, artificial intelligence and automation may apply. Sixth Sense will select a cohort on the basis of a pitching competition in September. The platform will fast-track the companies through an intensive 10-week programme to inform and refine their offering with Hexagon’s market insights. Sixth Sense will select up to three start-ups from the cohort in December. They will have the opportunity to scale their business alongside Hexagon. The winners will also have the opportunity to be part of Hexagon’s open platform for smart manufacturing collaboration; the “Connect, Innovate, Empower” Nexus ecosystem. This cohort’s theme builds on Hexagon’s commitment to accelerate innovation and drive the global shift to a new sustainable way of operating. Sixth Sense will see a focus on the following areas of emerging technology: digital twin innovations, metaverse factory design, predictive and prescriptive intelligence, and autonomous and sustainable manufacturing operations. Hexagon launched the Sixth Sense open innovation platform in January 2022 to nurture start-ups in the advanced manufacturing space with Hexagon resources. Its first winners were selected in June. They are rapidly scaling with Hexagon’s portfolio and  customer base. “Sixth Sense is open to applications from anyone, anywhere in the world. We’re excited to see how we can work together with new emerging leaders in manufacturing to meet society’s current and future challenges, as we believe that diverse backgrounds lead to better ideas. We have seen first-hand how start-ups can be a source of truly ground-breaking innovation and are looking forward to welcoming the latest best-of-the-best into the fold in September,” said Milan Kocić, head of Sixth Sense, Hexagon’s Manufacturing Intelligence division. 