ISA Security Compliance Institute adds Amazon Web Services as its latest member The ISA Security Compliance Institute (ISCI) recently added Amazon Web Services (AWS) as its latest member. ISA said in a statement that companies around the world are adopting AWS to take advantage of industrial internet of things (IIoT), artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) capabilities needed to drive operational efficiencies in their smart factories and industrial operations. AWS and AWS IoT services are key to providing safe and secure industrial digital transformation. “We welcome the AWS team and look forward to working with them here at ISCI. Cloud service providers like AWS are enabling Industrial IoT solutions today that are transforming how manufacturers, producers, and others use industrial automation with cloud services to monitor and optimize operations. AWS’s support of ISA/IEC 62443 and its active participation in the community as an ISCI member shows its commitment to open standards-based OT and IIoT cybersecurity. Participating in the ISASecure program is a demonstration of AWS’s desire to ensure safe and secure operations for customers at critical infrastructure sites around the globe,” said Andre Ristaino, ISCI Managing Director. With the increasing proliferation of IIoT systems and cloud services for innovation and digital transformation, government agencies and industrial customers are faced with protecting an expanding attack surface. The ISA/IEC 62443 series of standards, written before IIoT technologies were common, provides a strong basis for securing these environments. “AWS is committed to collaborating with the ISA Global Cybersecurity Alliance (ISAGCA), ISCI, the ISA99 standards committee, and industry partners, to update the ISA/IEC 62443 series of standards and certifications to ensure that all parties properly address emerging IIoT security requirements; all while advocating for vendor-neutral, interoperable, international standards-based operational technology (OT) and IIoT cybersecurity solutions,” said Ryan Dsouza, principal IIoT security solution architect at AWS.
As a member of ISASecure, AWS will join other thought leaders in taking action to secure automation and control systems worldwide. It will help support product conformity assessment to ISA/IEC 62443 standards. The ISA/IEC 62443 series of standards are designed to provide a flexible set of requirements to address and mitigate current and future security threats in automation and control systems products, system implementations and ongoing operations. 