ABB’s global innovation and training campus for machine automation now open in Austria ABB’s new global innovation and training campus is now open in B&R in Austria, its global center for machine and factory automation. The new campus includes research and development laboratories, as well as global training facilities for up to 4,000 people per year in collaboration with universities. ABB invested EUR 100 million in the expansion of the B&R headquarters. Sami Atiya, president of ABB’s Robotics & Discrete Automation business area, explained, “This is a decade of transformation towards robotics and automation as our customers respond to global labour and supply shortages, accelerating consumer demand for personalized products and the need to operate more sustainably. ABB’s new campus will serve as a customer collaboration center where we work with customers around the globe, helping them to respond to these trends and supporting B&R in becoming the partner of choice for the world’s most ambitious industrial automation projects.” Campus innovations in artificial intelligence and machine and factory automation will play an essential role in unlocking the potential of future industrial production. They will help increase productivity and flexibility, helping customers become more sustainable and produce closer to their end markets, according to the company. “Innovation has been in ABB’s DNA for more than 130 years and our division, B&R, is a true innovation hot-spot for the transformation towards more automated manufacturing. The official opening of this campus is a proud moment for our ABB as we create highly-skilled jobs while shaping the machines and factories of the future together with our customers,” said ABB CEO Björn Rosengren. The ABB innovation and training campus will serve as an open innovation hub, where B&R will closely collaborate with international customers, companies, and start-ups from across the region, as well as research and educational institutions to co-develop automation solutions and train the talents needed for the factories of the future. 