AVEVA expands strategic partnership with Microsoft to strengthen data integration platforms AVEVA has expanded its strategic collaboration with Microsoft to strengthen both companies’ data integration platforms. The company shares in a press statement that this will better prepare customers to incorporate AI in key industries worldwide. The agreement, says AVEVA, will see an even closer synergy between the industrial cloud platform AVEVA Connect and the data analytics solution Microsoft Fabric, which is currently in public preview. They are reportedly designed to streamline the process of collecting, transforming and unifying data from various sources. They help gather data from different parts of an organization’s operations, including manufacturing processes, supply chains and other relevant systems. These platforms offer tools for data cleansing, transformation and enrichment, reportedly making the data more consistent and useful for downstream applications and preparing data to power AI capabilities. “Connected information and insights provide a holistic view of business activity in real-time for industrial companies. We provide the operational data in order, and in context – which helps data scientists and business analysts get to work more quickly using trusted data that is shaped, transformed, and ready to use,” said Caspar Herzberg, CEO of AVEVA. “Such a connected ecosystem approach ignites ingenuity across the industrial sector and unlocks the next wave of growth at a time when businesses must operate within extremely fragmented and uncertain market conditions.” AVEVA Connect turns data into insight to improve businesses’ decision-making, says the company. The platform connects data that can create a real-time digital twin which unlocks the insights needed to engineer smarter and operate better. Teams can work anywhere in the world in a single collaborative cloud environment. And systems are connected so that software applications whether on premises, in the cloud or a hybrid mix are easily accessible. AVEVA Connect and Microsoft Fabric can help pull together the complete data analytics platform for the era of AI, shares AVEVA. Organizations can access their complete data estate to unlock and accelerate data potential, empowering teams and transforming business. “By enabling AVEVA Connect to interoperate with Microsoft Fabric, we’re empowering data and business professionals alike to unlock the potential of their data and lay a strong foundation for this era of AI,” said Darryl Willis, corporate vice-president of Energy and Resources Industry at Microsoft. 