Vector Institute extends partnerships with industry sponsors; strengthens Ontario’s AI ecosystem The Vector Institute has extended its strategic partnerships with its founding industry sponsors through to 2027. This five-year reaffirmation signals the commitment of the industry partners to the collaborative work undertaken over the past five years. This move supports Ontario’s efforts to lead in advance AI research and application. “We are grateful to our founding sponsors for their continued commitment to Vector and for their commitment to the growth of the AI ecosystem in Canada. Over the past five years, we have had the opportunity to collaborate on multiple fronts, from advancing AI engineering capabilities to working with sponsors on supporting their talent attraction and retention goals. Their renewed commitment with Vector will help secure Canada’s leadership role in the field of AI, increasing our global competitiveness and improving the lives of all Canadians. We look forward to leveraging our respective strengths in future projects,” said Garth Gibson, president and CEO of Vector Institute. The Vector Institute was established in 2017 with support from the Government of Canada, Government of Ontario and private industry. It was established in partnership with the University of Toronto and other universities to advance AI research and drive its application, adoption, and commercialization across Canada. Vector’s scientific network includes more than 600 active researchers and practitioners from across the country with expertise in deep learning and machine learning more broadly. Industry sponsors benefit from ‘Industry Innovation programs’ designed to accelerate the application of advanced AI in their organizations. They have opportunities to access Vector’s innovative collaborative projects, talent and recruitment support, advanced compute environment and AI engineering capabilities and industry-focused AI training programs for technical and business professionals. “Working with Vector, these sponsors can give their employees unique access to expert researchers, a valuable sandbox environment that allows them to try out new AI techniques with their peers, and first-hand access to an AI-talent pool that is in high-demand around the globe. We look forward to continuing to work hand-in-hand with these organizations to advance their AI strategies,” says Cameron Schuler, Vector Institute chief commercialization officer and vice-president of industry innovation. 