Electromate thrilled to win award for innovation and technology Electromate was named the winner of the Innovation and Technology Award at the 2022 Business Achievement Awards by the Vaughan Chamber of Commerce on June 9. The Innovation and Technology Award is given to a company that has shown exceptional innovation and technological prowess, superior business excellence and social awareness and has made outstanding contributions to the Vaughan community. It recognizes the company’s significant accomplishments in the field of Innovation and Technology made throughout the previous year. “Electromate is thrilled to receive this prestigious award. The award is a testament to the commitment of our awesome team members for the innovative engineering work they’ve done in the fields of biomedical, pharmaceutical and life sciences.  Electromate prides itself on its commitment to creating a workplace culture embodying the Core Values of Innovation, Integrity, Enthusiasm, Continuous Learning and Customer Advocacy.  Receiving external recognition for our efforts in creating a workplace of Innovation demonstrates we’re executing on our Core Values,” says Warren Osak, founder and president of Electromate. “Having this kind of recognition from the Vaughan business community is both gratifying and humbling.” Electromate said in a statement that this award holds a lot of significance since the company has been operating in Vaughan for over 20 years and is a member of the Chamber of Commerce. A committee of interviewers selected and assigned the specific award categories. Each category was then short-listed with five nominees. The committee members contacted Electromate contacted for in-person interviews. Once the interviews were conducted, each interviewer presented their findings to a panel of judges. The judges then scored each presentation confidentially. These ballots were then calculated by the BAA Co-Chair and the Vaughan Chamber of Commerce staff. The top three companies in each category were notified and contacted to schedule video shoots to be shown during the gala presentation ceremony. Electromate was presented with their award during the event. 