Schneider Electric partners with Claroty to enhance industrial cybersecurity Schneider Electric is collaborating with Claroty to enhance industrial cybersecurity. As per the agreement, Schneider Electric will integrate The Claroty Platform into its offering. This, according to the company, will enable it to better address new cybersecurity concerns, including protection, safety and insurance for industrial customers. “We see cybersecurity as a key differentiator,” said Jay Abdallah, vice-president of Cybersecurity Services at Schneider Electric. “Through our collaboration with Claroty, we are reinforcing its importance to the industrial process and taking active steps to mitigate new challenges. We are entering a new era of openness in the industrial world and the same is true for cybersecurity. We are pleased to partner with Claroty and continue our work together to create the most secure assets in the market.” Currently, more and more industrial enterprises are connecting previously isolated operational technology (OT) to corporate IT networks, while also introducing new IoT and industrial IoT assets into these converged OT/IT environments. Consequently, industrial systems are more exposed to new kinds of cyber threats with serious implications for physical safety and the environment, explains Scheider Electric in a statement. The Claroty Platform reveals and protects all OT, IoT, and IIoT assets while detecting and enabling response to the earliest indicators of potential threats. The platform is also a solution with fully integrated secure remote access and remote incident management capabilities spanning the entire incident lifecycle. “As industrial machinery and processes become increasingly connected to corporate IT networks and the internet in order to improve operational efficiency and reduce costs, they also become more exposed to cyber threats that could severely disrupt critical operations,” said Keith Carter, vice-president of Worldwide Channels and Alliances at Claroty. “Digital transformation must go hand in hand with cybersecurity, and this integration between Schneider Electric and Claroty delivers a market-leading combination that is tailor-made for industrial environments.” 