PTDA announces the addition of four new members The Power Transmission Distributors Association (PTDA), a global association for the industrial power transmission/motion control (PT/MC) distribution channel, recently added four new member companies. Guardair is a manufacturer of pneumatic tools and gasket cutters used for industrial cleaning and maintenance. The company features multiple distinct brands. These include Guardair, the U.S. manufacturer of OSHA-compliant safety air guns and pneumatic vacuums and ALLPAX GASKET CUTTER SYSTEMS, the global manufacturer of gasket cutters and accessories used in the fabrication of custom flange gaskets. “Guardair Corporation is excited to develop close alliances with PTDA distributors, learn best practices within the industry and support the relationship between our company and our distribution network,” said Thomas C. Tremblay, president. Rubber Tree Systems specializes in ERP and distribution in many different segments including power transmission, fluid power, hose, accessories, industrial supply, MRO supply, paper and furniture. “We believe associations like PTDA are the best way to strengthen relationships with both our customers and industry leaders. We have a history of serving distributors and manufacturers in the power transmission industry and look forward to building relationships with PTDA members,” said Taryn Stoeger, sales and marketing manager. Renegade Industrial Supply operates in the valves and fittings business/industry within the wholesale trade–durable goods sector, with an emphasis on gaskets, fasteners and instrumentation equipment. It has expanded to include bearings, power transmission products, rotating equipment repairs and industrial hoses. “As our company continues to grow, so does our customer base. Joining PTDA is vital for a small business such as ours. It helps open doors to working with more manufacturers, which adds to the services that we offer our customers,” said Justin Huff, vice-president. MGS Soluções Técnicas Industriais  offers the industry different options for supplying power transmission products, equipment for transporting bulk materials, industrial hand tools, automatic lubricators, motors, geared motors and rotary seals. “We joined PTDA to learn about market trends and products to become a reference in providing industrial solutions, helping industries to develop their full productive potential in Brazil,” said Said Serna, sales manager. 