Hannover Messe’s Hermes Award 2022 goes to Sumitomo Cyclo Drive Germany Sumitomo Cyclo Drive Germany was awarded the Hermes Award 2022 at Hannover Messe’s opening ceremony on May 29. The company received the award for its completely integrated drive system for robot applications and automation technology. Bettina Stark-Watzinger, Germany’s Minister of Education and Research presented the prize in presence of German Chancellor Olaf Scholz. The jury, chaired by Prof. Dr.-Ing. Reimund Neugebauer, president of the Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft, selected a product ideally suited for applications in the rapidly growing robotics market. The award-winning TUAKA product is a fully integrated drive. New features include the gear unit, the motor and the driver with safety functions. The product’s sensor technology and thermal management make it suitable for high-precision, sensitive applications in service robotics as well as for interaction with humans. The modular concept and modular systems enable an application-specific configuration of the required hardware. “This year we were again impressed by the number of excellent submissions from a wide range of technical fields and industries,” said Prof. Neugebauer. “Sumitomo Cyclo Drive Germany is a worthy winner of the Hermes Award. Their TUAKA product impressively demonstrates its innovative strength. This solution is not just technologically impressive: The fully integrated drive for robotic applications and automation technology is suitable for high-precision, sensitive applications in service robotics as well as for interaction with humans. Furthermore, the modular concept and building block systems enable the necessary hardware to be configured to the specific application.” The Hermes Award is Hannover Messe’s international technology prize and is presented each year at the event’s opening ceremony. All companies and institutions exhibiting at the event are eligible for entry. The prize goes to the one whose product or solution demonstrates a particularly high degree of technological innovation. Sumitomo Cyclo of Canada, Sumitomo Cyclo Drive Germany’s Canadian counterpart, is set to celebrate the grand opening of its new Surrey, B.C. facility on June 21. 