Endress+Hauser Canada unveils new Customer Experience Centre in Burlington Endress+Hauser Canada officially christened its new Customer Experience Centre in Burlington, Ont. on May 10. On hand for the ceremonies were CEO Matthias Altendorf and Klaus Endress, president of the Supervisory Board, who both took pride in “staying the course” in creating the new centre, which is completely self-sufficient in providing its own power and having a zero-carbon footprint. The two-storey, 47,000 sq. ft. $28-million centre – located at 1244 International Blvd. – features some of the latest instrumentation technology that Endress+Hauser Canada has to offer, and houses the company’s Burlington-based sales, service and administration staff. Customers can get a hands-on feel of the latest process automation offerings from the company before deciding on the most suitable products and solutions to match their needs, states E+H. The facility has a Process Training Unit (PTU), as well as a full-service calibration laboratory that can handle the entire spectrum of flow, temperature, pressure, and liquid analysis instrumentation. The PTU concept is a full-sized pilot plant with a wide range of the company’s instrumentation installed and fully functional. The new centre will serve the company’s customer base from Manitoba to Atlantic Canada. “After almost two years of being limited to Zoom and Team calls with customers, having such an exceptional showcase where they can come see equipment demonstrated, ask questions of our experts, even handle some products, is going to be a delight for us – and a competitive advantage,” said Anthony Varga, general manager of Endress+Hauser Canada. The building will operate on a net-zero energy and carbon basis, generating its own electricity, heat, and cooling. A reflective roof with double-sided solar panels generates green power during the day. Most electrically powered systems like video monitors are turned off at night and the building environment is maintained by heat pumps supplemented by a geothermal system. A months-long testing regime necessary to gain LEED Gold and net-zero certification has already begun. 