Ontario invests in automotive manufacturing in Windsor and Brampton Ontario attracts a $3.6 billion investment from Stellantis in the automaker’s Windsor and Brampton plants. These investments will accelerate the creation of one of the most vertically integrated electric vehicle supply chains in North America. Stellantis will retool and modernize the plants in Windsor and Brampton, converting them to flexible, multi-energy vehicle assembly facilities ready to produce the electric vehicles of the future. The company will also build two new research and development centres focusing on electric vehicles and EV battery technology. The province is supporting this with up to $513 million, with a matching investment from the federal government. Stellantis will build a new, flexible, multi-energy vehicle assembly line at its Windsor plant. This strategic retooling will diversify the company’s capacity by introducing battery-electric or hybrid models to the production line to meet growing consumer demand for low-emissions vehicles. Ontario is investing up to $287 million to facilitate retooling. “These investments re-affirm our long-term commitment to Canada and represent an important step as we move toward zero-emission vehicles that deliver on our customers’ desire for innovative, clean, safe and affordable mobility,” said Mark Stewart, Chief Operating Officer, FCA – North America. “We’re grateful to both the Federal and Provincial governments for their shared vision to create a sustainable future. And to Unifor and our workforce for their support in helping ensure the viability of our Canadian operations for the long-term.” Stellantis will also modernize its Automotive Research and Development Centre in Windsor by expanding and building two Centres of Competency. The Electric Vehicle and Battery Pack Testing Centres of Competency will establish Ontario as a major R&D hub for the company across all stages of production – from design to development. In addition to R&D, the centres will provide major opportunities for local talent, universities, colleges, and start-ups to participate in the development of Ontario’s EV ecosystem. The hubs will be central to Stellantis’ R&D operations in North America and serve the company’s worldwide needs for technology, process and product development. Ontario is supporting this critical R&D investment with a commitment of up to $94 million. At its Brampton Assembly Plant, Stellantis will install a flexible assembly line capable of producing battery-electric and hybrid vehicles. This overhaul will diversify the automaker’s capacity to meet growing consumer demand for low-emission vehicles. Ontario’s commitment of up to $132 million helps secure the long-term future of the facility in Brampton. Stellantis is creating a strong integrated supply chain and EV ecosystem in Ontario through EV assembly, cutting-edge R&D assets and battery cell manufacturing. Its recent investments totalling almost $6 billion will help transform the province’s auto industry. This includes the company’s recently announced joint investment with LG Energy Solution of $5 billion to build Ontario’s first large-scale electric vehicle battery manufacturing plant in Windsor. 