NGen announces innovation projects supporting zero-emission vehicle manufacturing in Canada Next Generation Manufacturing Canada (NGen) announced new innovation projects that support the zero-emission vehicle (ZEV) manufacturing ecosystem in Canada. The organization stated in a release that it recognizes the opportunity for Canada to develop efficient, high-quality and green cutting edge domestic production capabilities. “Global automakers have begun their journey to replace vehicles powered by internal combustion engines with zero-emission electric vehicles, but their transformation is far from complete,” said Jayson Myers, CEO at NGen. “Significant problems need to be solved in order to make the industry sustainable over the next ten years. Canada has all that it takes to play a leading role in that transformation – critical minerals, leading-edge research and technologies, strong manufacturing capabilities, and a highly-skilled workforce. The collaborative projects that NGen is supporting show how Canadian ingenuity can contribute solutions throughout the EV value chain and create new opportunities for businesses, investment, and job growth along the way.” In 2021, NGen launched a call for proposals to support R&D projects for ZEV manufacturing, systems, components and batteries in Canada. NGen announced 15 new industry-led consortia that will execute projects in strategic areas such as critical minerals and metals, traction battery & efficiency gains, power electronics, fuel cell and lightweight materials. “As the global transition to zero-emission vehicles accelerates, NGen has taken a leadership role in fostering game-changing collaborations with industry and academic partners across the country to reinforce Canada’s position as a global leader,” said the Honourable François-Philippe Champagne, Minister of Innovation, Science and Industry. “These projects demonstrate the exceptional capabilities and talent that we can deploy to create more business and build the vehicles of the future here in Canada.” NGen’s CTO John Laughlin added that investment in advanced manufacturing processes and technologies is the key to solving complex problems and ensuring that Canadian manufacturers are positioned to thrive in the EV value chains of the future. 