Rittal accepting applications for ‘Rittal Advancing Women in Tech’ EFC scholarship 2022 Rittal Canada will be awarding two ‘Advancing Women in Tech’ scholarships of $1,750 each, to female Canadian undergraduates to help further their studies and careers in the electrical and associated industries. Applications are now open and the deadline is May 31. To apply, the candidate must be a citizen of Canada or a legal permanent resident, must be a current post-secondary undergraduate student, enrolled in a full-time appropriate field of study (eg. Electrical Engineering/Apprenticeship or Electrical/Electronic Technologist or Technician) at an accredited college or university program. The successful student must have competitive grades in their current program and additionally be able to demonstrate leadership and involvement in their community. Rittal states that examples of unique projects showing expertise with industry-relevant software for solution design would be a welcome addition to the application. Scholarship application details are available here. Andre Bousette, president of Rittal Canada, said, “At Rittal, we believe in diversity and inclusivity, and what better way to embody this philosophy than by encouraging young women to join the manufacturing and electrical industry! We hope that this ‘Advanced Women in Tech’ scholarship will encourage women to join our industry, and help them to pursue a career in this field.” Electro-Federation Canada (EFC) supports university and college students with funding through the EFC Scholarship Program on a regular basis.  Over $160,000 raised will offer 63 scholarships supported by leading Canadian electrical manufacturers and distributors this year. Students pursuing a career in Electrical Engineering, Electrical Technologist/Technician, Industrial Distribution, Sales, Marketing, Finance, Human Resources, Supply Chain Operations, Logistics, Data Analytics Management, or Information Technology may apply. Many new scholarships are available this year that support diversity and inclusion, encouraging indigenous, underrepresented ethnicities and women students to apply. “The EFC Scholarship Program is more essential today with the pandemic impacting student employment with increased pressures on their financial and mental health. This funding will assist the brightest students in the pursuit of their education. The program highlights the electrical industry as a great career destination. It also offers the opportunity for students to engage with EFC member companies, offering employment and career opportunities.” said John Jefkins, vice-president of member engagement and corporate partnerships at Electro-Federation Canada. 