Ontario government invests to strengthen the auto parts supply chain The Ontario government announced an additional investment of $5.5 million through the Ontario Automotive Modernization Program (O-AMP) to strengthen the province’s auto parts supply chain. O-AMP is a centrepiece of Phase 2 of Ontario’s 10-year vision in the strategic plan Driving Prosperity ― The Future of Ontario’s Automotive Sector. “O-AMP plays an integral part in helping Ontario-based companies grow in a globally competitive auto parts industry,” said Vic Fedeli, Minister of Economic Development, Job Creation and Trade. “The auto and manufacturing sectors are cornerstones of Ontario’s economy, providing good jobs for local families and workers. By reducing the cost of doing business in Ontario by nearly $7 billion annually, and through programs like O-AMP, our government is creating the right economic climate to encourage investment, innovation and growth.” Funding awarded since the launch of O-AMP in 2019 has leveraged more than $36.5 million in industry investments. The current round of O-AMP projects will see investments of nearly $5.52 million from 44 companies. Guelph-based Poly-Nova Technologies Corporation is a custom manufacturer of specialized sealing and rubber components for automotive, industrial, life sciences and energy applications. With $142,500 in O-AMP funding, the company will invest more than $326,000 in new manufacturing technology to expand product offerings and increase competitiveness. The project will create 15 jobs. Cornwall-based Morbern Inc. specializes in coated fabrics and vinyl materials used in sectors including automotive, healthcare, and hospitality. With $142,500 in O-AMP funding, the company will invest more than $429,000 in advanced Industry 4.0 technologies that will monitor for production defects and deploy data analytics to enhance quality control. Windsor-based Nominal Machine Tool has a full-service tool and die/machining division, a stamping and assemblies sivision, as well as an automation, robotics and integration sivision providing full 3D designs, prototyping, manufacturing and refurbishment services for the automotive, EV and advanced manufacturing sectors. With $142,500 in O-AMP funding, the company will invest more than $307,000 in new production technologies while building upon in-house Lean manufacturing expertise to improve efficiency and competitiveness. The project will create seven jobs. “Technology is migrating from the car to the factory. It is no longer enough to simply make the most advanced goods. Ontario companies must make them in the most advanced factories in the world to compete,” said Flavio Volpe, president of the Auto Parts Manufacturers Association. “The O-AMP program uniquely targets that challenge, and we are proud to partner with the province to deliver it.” 