CME extends service offerings to strengthen manufacturing with Ontario government support With funding from the Ontario government, Canadian Manufacturers & Exporters (CME) is offering complimentary training and affordable peer-to-peer mentoring in the province. Two of the biggest challenges affecting the growth of the manufacturing sector are supply chain disruptions and labour shortages. CME is offering Lean 101 Training, Women in Manufacturing Leadership Training, Health and Safety Training and Lean Site Audits. With this suite of training services, CME aims to overcome those challenges. “Across Ontario, more than 300,000 jobs continue to go unfilled every day, costing our province billions in lost productivity,” said Monte McNaughton, Minister of Labour, Training and Skills Development. “This CME program will help workers in the manufacturing sector get the training they need to earn bigger paycheques and help businesses find the skilled workers they need to grow the economy for everyone.” Employees in any manufacturing company in the province will be able to avail these services at no cost. The courses will be offered virtually and in person. These training services are designed to improve manufacturers’ access to specific skills development and peer-to-peer training, as well as help Ontario staff in manufacturing organizations grow. This includes improvements to innovation, productivity, safety and the development of leadership and stronger supply chains. “Labour and skills shortages are the most pressing issues facing manufacturers today,” said Mathew Wilson, senior vice-president of policy, government relations and Ontario Division at CME. “CME’s Ontario Manufacturers’ Platform for Prosperity calls on the government to get manufacturers the workers they need and to support business scale-up and investment. This government funding is in line with those asks and what CME has been continually advocating for – more support for manufacturers to build the capacity of their workforce and to develop the skills they need to drive economic growth.” 