Eplan to host Virtual Fair 2022 in May Eplan announced that it is hosting Eplan Virtual Fair 2022 on May 4 and 5. The event will be held across several time zones. During the event, Eplan’s experts will address questions such as: Which trends will distinguish the engineering of the future? How has Eplan aligned its solutions and services for the coming challenges its customers will be facing? Eplan partners including ABB, Beckhoff, Phoenix Contact and Rockwell Automation will also be sharing their concepts and best practices with attendees. “We’re very pleased that this year’s Eplan Virtual Fair will be focusing entirely on collaboration in engineering,” says Eplan managing director Haluk Menderes. “Collaboration between stakeholders in the ecosystem, not to mention between Eplan and its customers, is everything – and we’re happy to be bringing it to an international stage.” On the 2nd day of the virtual fair, Leigh Spraggett, president of RidgeTech Automation will join Roland Younk, president of EPLAN Canada and André Bousette, president of Rittal Systems Ltd. on stage for a presentation on how digital transformation across the value chain between Rittal and EPLAN has helped improve their productivity and allowed RidgeTech to serve its customers with high-quality industrial automation solutions. The presentation will take place at 1:30 p.m. ET on May 5. Participants who stop by the EPLAN booth in the Canadian Pavilion will be able to learn about how Rittal and EPLAN are helping Canadian customers succeed. Timothy J. McCain, responsible for the digital partner program at Rockwell Automation, will present practical insights into the ecosystem of industrial automation from the point of view of a global player. Dr. Andreas Schreiber, vice-president of industrial cabinet solutions at Phoenix Contact will demonstrate the potential that standardized, AML-based workflows hold in “Smart Engineering and Production.” The partner keynote presentation by ABB will focus on electrical engineering using Eplan and ABB e-Configure. ABB global data center segment manager Aleksandar Grbic will lead this presentation. Other Eplan customers will also share their best practices with attendees. On day one of the event, seven different live demonstrations on software topics and experts will offer practical insights into the innovations of the Eplan Platform. The conference programme will also take a look at the manifold opportunities the Eplan Cloud offers and also examine the potential efficiency gains of the integrated value chain in panel building and control cabinet manufacturing. Registration is free of charge. Attendees can register at: https://event.eplan.com/virtual-fair-en 