Honda of Canada Mfg. to invest over $1.38 billion in Ontario manufacturing plants Honda of Canada Mfg. (HCM), a division of Honda Canada, recently announced that it is investing $1.38 billion over six years to upgrade its manufacturing plants in Alliston, Ontario. The funds will be used to add and implement new and innovative technologies, processes, supply chain and vehicle research and development programs in the plants. This is aligned with Honda’s goal to reach zero emissions by 2040. With the investment, HCM is set to become the North American lead plant for Honda’s 2023 CR-V Hybrid crossover. This will bring Honda’s total Canadian facilities investments to more than $6.5 billion since the opening of its first manufacturing facility in Canada in 1986. The governments of Canada and Ontario are each supporting HCM’s investment with an equal and conditional contribution of $131.6 million. “This represents an important milestone for Honda as we move forward in our ambitious vision to make battery electric vehicles represent 100 percent of our North America vehicle sales by 2040,” said Jean Marc Leclerc, president and CEO of Honda Canada. “HCM is home to a team of remarkably talented associates who build some of Honda’s most popular and fuel-efficient products. This investment not only ensures our product and manufacturing competitiveness within Ontario, Canada and abroad, but also significantly bolsters our ongoing efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to help Canada attain its overall climate targets.” In a statement released by the company, Honda explains that retooling both production lines at HCM will help in securing thousands of jobs in Alliston and throughout Honda’s extensive Canadian supplier network. The company is also investing in enhanced job training initiatives and expanded inclusive hiring practices, as well as research and development programs that further reduce the environmental impacts of vehicle production. HCM has the capacity to produce over 400,000 vehicles and 190,000 engines annually. 