MaRS and Scale AI partner to offer supply chain solutions with AI MaRS is entering into phase two of its partnership with SCALE AI, the federal artificial intelligence supercluster, to support the commercialization of Canadian supply chain solutions companies. In this phase, 12 ventures are participating in the Supply AI program at the Toronto-based innovation hub. They will refine their product offerings, create and implement scaling strategies and grow their teams and brand awareness. “The pandemic has exposed massive fault lines in our supply chains and this cohort of AI innovators are working overtime to solve many of these problems,” said Jon Dogterom, senior vice president of Venture Services at MaRS. “The partnership will accelerate their progress and ultimately strengthen supply chains here in Canada.” With funding support from the federal and Quebec governments, SCALE AI supports startups to bring artificial intelligence from the lab to the field. The Supply AI program and access to the MaRS ecosystem will accelerate Canada’s growth as a leader in the field of smart supply chains. “Canadian AI ventures have an opportunity to grow their leadership in the supply chain space and a program like this is a great way to accelerate that development,” said Hakim Merah, Senior Manager, Acceleration and AI Ecosystem at SCALE AI. This group of 12 artificial intelligence companies spans the worlds of high precision robotics, autonomous vehicles and carbon emissions reduction. The members of this group of Supply AI ventures are Audette Analytics; Bluicity; Cyberworks Robotics; Gray Routes AI; Indie Tech; Lim Geomatics; Moselle; Preteckt Canada; Symboticware; Synkar Autonomous; Taiga Robotics; and Vigilant AI. MaRS will work with the companies to grow their revenue, help them access capital and attract the right talent, as well as tap into new markets and enable operations. “MaRS’ unique ecosystem of experts who specialize in growing tech- and science-based startups is perfectly suited to partner with this cohort,” said Osh Momoh, chief technical advisor at MaRS. “It’s an exciting time to be working with Canada’s artificial intelligence community.” 