Rittal Canada announces the launch of its redesigned website Rittal Canada launched its newly redesigned website at www.rittal.ca. While the website URL remains the same, users will see a marked difference when they visit it now. The website retains Rittal’s branding and colours. The new design is streamlined and has better functionality that the previous version. Partners, customers and prospects will now find it easier to access information quickly and efficiently to take necessary decisions. The new website features the following distinctive sections : Products: This section includes industrial, IT and automation solutions and accessories. It also includes a separate tab to download CAD drawings and a comprehensive document centre to obtain Rittal’s latest collateral. Software: This section contain Rittal’s configuration tools and software, and showcases the EPLAN Engineering Platform and Rittal’s CAD tool. Solutions: The new Solutions section provides information on key industries and technological trends, along with Candian and global case studies that outline how Rittal’s flexible and standardized made-to-measure solutions can meet unique requirements. Configuration: A separate section for the new RiPanel configuration tool for configuring Rittal enclosures at no cost to the end-user. Services: This section outlines the services that Rittal provides, including customized service packages, extended warranties and complimentary audits and consults, among other things Company: This section contains information about the FLG Group, the company globally and locally, including the history, team, events and a blog with regular updates. News: This part features the latest news from Rittal Canada, including product and partnership announcements, awards and achievements. Visitors to the redesigned website can move from one section to the next smoothly. The web mapping, social media icons and contact details have been added at the base of the main landing page of rittal.ca to make web navigation easier and more pleasurable. André Bousette, president of Rittal Canada, said, “Our marketing, product, Web and IT teams worked together to ensure that the re-designed website flows well, and contains relevant information for our Canadian audience. It is important to not only showcase our global expertise but also our localized content, solutions and success stories pertaining to our key national industries. Our website is a work in progress and we will continue to refine and enhance it to suit the needs of our market.” 