Phoenix Contact’s PLCnext Control receives IEC 62443 certification Phoenix Contact’s PLCnext Control product family has received IEC 62443-4-1 ML 3 Full Process Profile certificate in combination with IEC 62443-4-2. This certification confirms that the secure development life cycle was fully applied when developing the devices. “Implementing the security functions of IEC 62443-4-2 in accordance with the standard required close collaboration with TÜV SÜD, since requirements in 4-2 are often only described in very general terms,” said Stefan Hausmann, product solution and security expert at Phoenix Contact. TÜV SÜD has certified the PLCnext Control product family of AXC F 1152, AXC F 2152, and AXC 3152. By activating the security profile, users have access to a comprehensive scope of Security Level 2 (SL2) functions. “The IEC 62443 standard series defines the security requirements for the development process and the functional product characteristics. Integrating these into an open platform such as PLCnext was a true challenge, which was solved elegantly by introducing the Security Profile,” said Enrico Seidel, senior OT security expert at TÜV SÜD. “Product certification in accordance with IEC 62443-4-1/-4-2 shows users that a product was developed securely and provides information on which technical security requirements were implemented. Our Certificate Report describes which product characteristic achieved which Security Level,” added Heiko Adamczyk from TÜV SÜD. Boris Waldeck, IEC 62443 certification project manager at Phoenix Contact explained that implementation of the development-side 4-1 process requirements, for instance with the definition of the security context, threat analysis, secure-by-design concepts and implementations, vulnerability management and the establishment of security test methods were the key building blocks of the certification. In automation, IEC 62443 IT Security for Industrial Automation Systems considers security holistically from the perspectives of the operator, system integrator and device manufacturer. It is easier for operators and system integrators to implement security when integrating and operating automation systems when products are developed in accordance with IEC 62443. It helps ensure security throughout the life cycle. 