Omron Automation adds Valiant TMS as its certified systems integrator Omron Automation Americas recently added Valiant TMS as a new partner in its Certified Systems Integrator program. For over 62 years, Valiant TMS has been supplying intelligent automation solutions to the automotive, aerospace and heavy industry sectors. The company’s expertise is in digital transformation and Industry 4.0 integration. It has the systems, processes, resources and capacity in place to make it an ideal partner for Omron. “Valiant TMS is proud to collaborate with Omron to develop intelligent automation solutions around the globe leveraging the latest technologies to create smart and sustainable factories for the world’s leading companies,” said David Bustamante, vice-president of engineering at Valiant TMS.  “This partnership will not only mutually benefit our operations in markets and sectors which we have in common, but will serve as a gateway for growth into those areas that we each independently serve.” The Omron Certified Systems Integrator program matches solution providers with the technology, training and resources needed to deliver innovative and competitive solutions. Manufacturers and business partners today are focused on delivering open and secure Industry 4.0 solutions that support flexible manufacturing and deliver a competitive advantage. The relationship built through this program helps solve customer challenges while enabling efficient, fully integrated systems capable of weathering future demands. For Omron Automation, systems integrators play a major role in designing and delivering fully integrated automation solutions. They are able to leverage their industry and application expertise in implementing the latest technologies from Omron. “Valiant TMS brings exceptional expertise and credibility to customers. They have proven capabilities integrating the Omron Sysmac platform and autonomous mobile robots (AMRs) across multiple applications, ensuring customers stay ahead of industry demands, production challenges and labour shortages,” said Peter Brouwer, vice-president of sales for Omron Automation Americas. “Today’s manufacturing operations have an increased need for flexibility and customizations. Turning to partners that have experience and expertise with advanced automation and AMR technology is key for plants leveraging Industry 4.0 to meet modern production requirements. We are excited to welcome Valiant to our program.” 