Omron Automation announces new R&D centre for innovations in advanced motion Omron Automation Americas has announced the opening of its new Omron Advanced Motion Research and Development Center. A team of top-talent engineers, with Curt Wilson, senior director of engineering, advanced motion, at the helm, will continue innovative work pioneered by Delta Tau Data Systems at this new state-of-the-art facility. Through this centre, Omron offers industrial motion control solutions to customers to address computationally and complexly demanding applications. The research and development centre features Omron technology development and systems integration capabilities. It has a production area with an in-house engineering team, comprised of 40 experts who are available to collaborate regionally with customers. “With Omron’s continued investments and focus on resources, we’re continuing to lead in innovative solutions in the field,” said Wilson. “For decades, Delta Tau has been a world leader in high-performance motion and machine control, combining high precision – to the sub-nanometer level, high speeds – allowing thousands of programmed moves per second, and exceptional flexibility in a variety of cost-effective configurations. Today, we’re excited to continue this work together, developing elite motion control systems that control some of the  world’s most complex and demanding applications.” In a statement released by the company, Omron states that this expansion enables it to develop highly precise, high-speed motion technology that fits the needs of customers throughout semiconductor, medical, packaging, scientific research, and other industries. The centre allows engineers to further innovate in the field of advanced motion control design, developing Programmable Multi-Axis Controller or “PMAC”.  PMAC achieves sophisticated nanoscale precision control for applications including high-speed synchronous control of 3D additive manufacturing, including laser modulation, synchronization with XY stages, and NC (Numerical Control) type trajectory processing. 