Ontario supports electric vehicle battery innovation lab in Windsor The Ontario government is investing $1.5 million through the Regional Development Program to support Ventra Group’s $18.5 million investment. The auto parts manufacturer, a part of the Flex|N|Gate group of companies, is investing the money to create the Flex-Ion Battery Innovation Centre. With these funds, the company is creating a pilot line to manufacture lithium-ion batteries for electric vehicles. The funds are also being used to conduct basic product and manufacturing technology research and development. “The Flex-Ion Battery Innovation Centre marks a critical first milestone in our strategy to level up our next-generation battery design, material localization and manufacturing skills,” said Shahid Khan, Flex|N|Gate’s CEO, COO and president. “We are privileged and delighted that Ontario’s warm welcome and generous support has allowed us to create an Ontario-first ecosystem within the global markets for advanced traction batteries and battery manufacturing technologies.” Ventra Group is collaborating with academic researchers and Ontario businesses to assess, develop and optimize materials and performance in the commercialization of prototype batteries and emerging storage technologies to ensure durable competitiveness. The province’s investment in the project will help boost local manufacturing and strengthen Ontario’s automotive and domestic manufacturing sectors, while also creating jobs. This project is expected to create 18 jobs. “Our government is making targeted investments in local manufacturers to help them create good local jobs,” said Vic Fedeli, Minister of Economic Development, Job Creation and Trade. “We thank Ventra Group for contributing to our province’s vibrant, innovative, and growing automotive sector. Investments like this one will help further develop Ontario’s EV battery supply chain and play a pivotal role in Phase 2 of our Driving Prosperity auto plan. Ventra Group is also making a significant impact on the Windsor regional economy by investing in Ontario’s talented workforce and creating the conditions for long-term economic growth.” 