Hannover Messe 2022 to take place in the beginning of June Organizers of the Hannover Messe 2022 show recently announced that the show is being rescheduled for May 30 to June 2. The show was originally slated to take place in April. The decision was made Deutsche Messe AG, along with the Hannover Messe exhibitor advisory board and partner associations VDMA (Association of German Mechanical and Plant Engineering) and ZVEI (Central Association of German Electrical Engineering and Digital Industry). “Due to the continuing high incidence [of COVID-19] in Germany and many neighbouring countries, we decided together with our exhibitors to reschedule Hannover Messe. Last year demonstrated that the summer months are best for major events during this pandemic. Right now we cannot predict if the COVID situation will be better by April, so the new date offers our customers the greatest possible planning security so that they can present their innovations at the world’s most important industrial trade show,” said Dr. Jochen Köckler, CEO of Deutsche Messe AG. A major global industrial event, the Hannover Messe show will focus on digitalization and sustainability to stimulate innovative and efficient approaches to production and climate protection. The show will run for four days this year as the Hannover Exhibition Center has a full event calendar in June. The show is expected to return to its regular five-day schedule in April 2023. “It is right to postpone Hannover Messe to a later date and allow the vaccination rate to increase, which is in the interest of exhibitors and visitors to the fair. The later date also increases the probability of a bigger audience both nationally and internationally, which benefits everyone. The mechanical and plant engineering sector will present itself in Hannover as a technological enabler of climate protection and digitalization as well as a provider and user of cutting-edge technology for networked and intelligent production,” says VDMA general manager Thilo Brodtmann. 