Phoenix Contact celebrates 40 years of successful operations in Canada Phoenix Contact is celebrating its 40th anniversary of successful operation in Canada. The company shared in a press statement that since it established a small sales office in Matheson Drive, Mississauga in 1983, it has expanded its operations considerably. Its current Canadian headquarters is in Milton where the facility is equipped with training, proof of concept showroom and value-add centre. Phoenix Contact also has an Eastern Region Technology Center in Quebec, a Western Regional Technology Center in Calgary and a sales office in British Columbia. “Our 40-year journey in Canada has been nothing short of extraordinary,” said Roger Hallett, president of Phoenix Contact Canada. “From humble beginnings as a small sales office to establishing our headquarters, we have continually strived to bring the best electrification, networking, and automation solutions to our Canadian customers. We owe our success to our talented team, valued customers, and supportive partners who have been integral to our growth.” The company shares that over the past four decades, it has been at the forefront of delivering cutting-edge solutions to businesses across various industries. Its commitment to innovation, quality, and customer satisfaction has reportedly earned the trust of its numerous customers and partners throughout Canada. Phoenix Contact will host a series of events and initiatives to express gratitude to its employees, customers and partners to celebrate this milestone. It looks forward to reflecting on its accomplishments and sharing its vision for the future during these celebrations. Phoenix Contact notes that its dedication to staying ahead in technology and its willingness to adapt to the changing needs of the Canadian market have been instrumental in its continued success. Throughout the years, the company has reportedly fostered collaborations and partnerships with organizations that share its passion for technology and innovation. Phoenix Contact shares that it will continue to develop innovative solutions that empower businesses and industries to thrive in an ever-evolving landscape. Currently, Phoenix Contact employs around 22,000 people and generated revenues of €3.6 billion in 2022. Worldwide, Phoenix Contact manufactures in a production network spanning 11 countries in which the level of vertical integration varies. More than 50 international subsidiaries are part of the Phoenix Contact Group. In this way, the company is always close to the markets and customers. 