PULS completes acquisition of wireless charging specialist Wiferion PULS recently completed the acquisition of Wiferion and its wireless charging business and technology on October 1. The company shares in a press statement that it took an opportunity to expand its business with a new technology, which is promising for many of its customers: wireless charging of autonomous guided vehicles and mobile robots. “As a pioneer, Wiferion has successfully developed inductive charging to maximize the performance of industrial electric vehicles such as autonomous guided vehicles, autonomous mobile robots and forklifts, and thereby gained the leading market position. With the additional capabilities of PULS, we want to make this system the global market standard and will invest significantly,” says Bernhard Erdl, managing director and owner of PULS. Post this acquisition, Wiferion becomes the company’s new business unit PULS Wireless, with an operational team in Freiburg (Germany). The company adds that the new wireless charging technology will provide fleet efficiency and is maintenance-free, reliable and flexible. It will become an integral part of any automated production, helping companies to increase productivity while reducing their day-to-day costs. By adding Wiferion’s technology to the already extensive PULS portfolio, the company will reportedly be able to offer future-proof solutions to the manufacturing and intralogistics industries with its FIEPOS (Field Power Supply) and inductive charging systems. “PULS employs more than 100 of the best developers in the industry and has global production and sales locations that take our charging technology and scalability to a new level,” says Julian Seume, former CSO of Wiferion, who together with Matthieu Ebert forms the management team of the PULS Wireless Business Unit. “Especially in the area of new product development and application support, we are now in a much stronger position and can offer our customers an even better service.” 