Allied Motion announces acquisition of Spectrum Controls Allied Motion Technologies, a designer and manufacturer of precision and specialty controlled motion products and solutions for the global market,  has acquired Spectrum Controls, a manufacturer of a wide variety of industrial I/O and universal communications gateway products. “Spectrum has a long history of innovation, partnership, and customized customer fulfillment, and we are excited to welcome the entire Spectrum team to the Allied family. This acquisition is an excellent strategic fit and provides us with a tremendous opportunity to enhance our position as a value-added solutions supplier to the industrial automation and industrial controls market,” said Dick Warzala, chairman and CEO. “In addition, Spectrum enhances our customer base, adds significant engineering resources and has the technology and know-how to provide solutions that meet the system requirements of functional safety.” The $70 million acquisition closed with the payment of $45 million. The remaining amount is to be paid in 2022 and 2023. “Allied has built an impressive organization. We believe that given their strong leadership team and their One Allied culture, we have found the ideal partner to successfully execute on the many strategic initiatives and opportunities we have in front of us. We look forward to a bright future together,” said Bruce Wanta, founder and president of Spectrum. Warzala added that Allied can further its growth by leveraging Spectrum’s partner relationships with large industrial automation companies, utilizing its global distribution channels and benefiting from the continued digital transformation around IIoT, AI and analytics that are driving the increased use of smart factory floor devices. Spectrum designs and manufactures a wide range of I/O modules, marquee displays and industrial gateways for broad industrial controls applications through partnerships with PLC manufacturers and distributors. Spectrum serves large industrial automation projects and specialty applications domestically and throughout the world, including the Americas, Europe, Asia and the Middle East. 