NUBURU Expands Automotive Manufacturing Offering with Wire Welding Solutions NUBURU, Inc., announced it has received a purchase order for its BlueScan solution from a worldwide leader in coil and motor winding and assembly systems to produce electric motors. NUBURU, Inc., a leading innovator in high-power and high-brightness industrial blue laser technology, announced it has received a purchase order for its BlueScan solution from a worldwide leader in coil and motor winding and assembly systems to produce electric motors. The Company’s BlueScan solution includes a BL-250 laser, scanner and optics that will be supplied to the customer’s research and development (R&D) lab where the automotive solenoid manufacturing production process will be validated.

Historically, arc welding is used for this application, but is limited by production speed as well as frequently required post-welding processing. By comparison, the BlueScan solution enables wire to post welding without porosity or the spatter associated with arc welding or infrared fiber lasers. NUBURU’s solution is faster and enables the high yield needed for mass production.

Brian Knaley, CEO of NUBURU, commented: “While we continue expanding our product offering to more high growth industries and applications, I’m excited about the extension of our BL-250 laser system within the E-mobility market, as it represents one of the largest and fastest growing serviceable addressable market for NUBURU.”

The order is a natural extension of the Company’s advancement into next-generation computers, consumer electronics and communication (3C) device manufacturing and marks a significant expansion in offering to the growing EV automotive industry.

In adherence to strict confidentiality agreements, we cannot disclose the name of the prestigious company we have received the purchase order from. Our commitment to not disclose specifics underscores our dedication to maintaining the trust and confidentiality that are paramount to our partnerships. Founded in 2015, NUBURU, Inc., is a developer and manufacturer of industrial blue lasers that leverage fundamental physics and their high-brightness, high-power design to produce faster, higher quality welds and parts than current lasers can provide in laser welding and additive manufacturing of copper, gold, aluminum and other industrially important metals. NUBURU’s industrial blue lasers produce minimal to defect-free welds that are up to eight times faster than the traditional approaches—all with the flexibility inherent to laser processing. 