The Rise of the 'Digital Maverick' Characterized by strategic, big-picture thinking, relentless determination, strong business understanding, technical prowess and sometimes a chip on their shoulder, the digital maverick is a new breed of industrial leader who is critical for taking an industrial digital transformation program. Industrial organizations can no longer afford not to take risks. But which heroes are central to business transformation and are staking their careers (and driving meaningful change) based on the truth that digitalization across industry remains deficient and that a smarter, more autonomous industrial future requires a new playbook? This article discusses the essential qualities of a digital maverick—the type of person crucial for driving their company's digital transformation program amid the rise of industrial AI.

Characterized by strategic, big-picture thinking, relentless determination, strong business understanding, technical prowess and sometimes a chip on their shoulder, the digital maverick is a new breed of industrial leader who is critical for taking an industrial digital transformation program and making it truly meaningful and valuable with the advent of industrial AI. While other members of digital operations teams think about deploying operational use cases and analytics, the digital maverick is thinking about building new long-term business capabilities. Instead of searching for keywords such as: “what is an industrial chatbot?” “good data management platforms,” or “digital operations dashboards,” the digital maverick craves and drives clarity on new ideas such as “ChatGPT for operations,” “retrieval augmented generation,” “AI and contextualized data,” and “autonomous digital factory.”

They also know from experience what has not worked well enough to deliver meaningful value from previous attempts at industrial AI—either from seeing first-hand more noise than value (unreliable models, too many false positives, constant retraining), or outright failure of AI deployments to create meaningful change in operator workflows. The digital maverick knows there's a solution to the age-old industrial challenge of operating complex environments with limited insights and sub-optimal decision-making Everything these digital mavericks have been implementing with incremental gains to date (Industrial DataOps infrastructure, skillset investments and other foundational capabilities) have become 10X more valuable almost overnight as industry adopts high-trust, secure, hallucination-free generative AI to harvest more business value from digital operations.

The inflection point could not be more real, obvious or urgent from both a technology and strategic perspective. True digital mavericks know that the game has been changed forever and that they carry a new responsibility to drive and govern a new playbook that includes a new set of guidance:

1. Realign digital KPIs and skill sets to key business drivers
Digital mavericks know that their organization's charter and KPIs must be ever more tied to business value and operational gains. Instead of deploying proofs of concepts, their KPIs must reflect business impact, successful scaling and other product-like metrics: To learn more about making generative AI work for industry, download The Definitive Guide to Generative AI for Industry, a free resource authored by AI innovators at Cognite. 