Seeq Wins Silver in 13th Annual Best in Biz Awards Accolade has recognized Seeq in the “Enterprise Product of the Year” category for its innovative advanced analytics and AI platform for addressing operational challenges impacting the manufacturing industry. Dec. 14, 2023 - Seeq, a leader in advanced analytics and industrial AI, has been named a silver winner in the Enterprise Product of the Year - All Other Software category in Best in Biz Awards, the only independent business awards program judged each year by prominent editors and reporters from top-tier publications in North America.

Seeq is being recognized for its self-service, advanced analytics and industrial AI platform that accesses and leverages vast amounts of historically underused data. By incorporating leading-edge technologies, including AI, machine learning and other capabilities, into its platform and leveraging its global partner network, Seeq powers a range of use cases for employees across the enterprise to accelerate digital transformation outcomes such as operational excellence and profitability, workforce upskilling and sustainability.

The 13th annual program saw intense competition among more than 600 entries from public and private companies, representing all industries and regions in the U.S. and Canada and ranging from some of the most iconic global brands to the most innovative start-ups and beloved local companies. This year’s judges highlighted the winning companies’ breadth and depth of innovation, their novel approaches to employing new technologies, impressive workplace benefits and employee diversity and inclusion programs, as well as continued community involvement and critical investments in environment and corporate social responsibility programs.

“As a leading provider of self-service, enterprise SaaS solutions, we’re pleased to receive the Best in Biz Award for the Enterprise Product of the Year - All Other Software category,” said Dr. Lisa Graham, CEO at Seeq. “Industrial companies are turning to digital solutions to scale, empower and maximize access to data to drive sustainability, operational excellence and profitability. Our advanced analytics and industrial AI platform empowers these organizations to accelerate their digital transformation initiatives by making operational time series data insights available to all stakeholders for improved business outcomes.”

Since the program’s inception in 2011, winners in Best in Biz Awards have been determined by independent judging panels assembled each year from some of the most respected national and local newspapers, TV and radio outlets and business, consumer, technology and trade publications in North America. Thanks to the unparalleled expertise and experience of the editors and reporters serving as judges and the impressive diversity of outlets they represent, Best in Biz Awards judging panels are uniquely suited to objectively determine the best of the best from among the hundreds of competitive entries. The 2023 judging panel included, among others, writers and contributors to Ad Age, Computerworld, Fast Company, Forbes, Inc., Portland Tribune, Washington Post.

“As in years past, determining winners in some categories was a matter of selecting the very best from among the very good and came down to the smallest details,” said Best in Biz Awards staff. “Each year, the judges are impressed by the innovations, growth and change emanating from the winning companies and permeating across layers of society, from their employees through clients to local and global communities.”

Best in Biz Awards 2022 honors were conferred in 100 different categories, including Company of the Year, Fastest-Growing Company, Most Innovative Company, Best Place to Work, Customer Service Department, Executive of the Year, Marketing Executive, Most Innovative Service, Enterprise Product, Best New Product, App, CSR Program, Environmental Program, Website and Film/Video of the Year. For a full list of gold, silver and bronze winners in Best in Biz Awards 2023, visit the website. Seeq, a global leader in advanced analytics and AI for industrial companies, delivers a self-service, enterprise SaaS platform and solutions to accelerate critical insights and action from historically unused data. Oil and gas, pharmaceutical, specialty chemical, utility, renewable energy and numerous other vertical industries rely on Seeq to optimize business and production outcomes, including yield, margins, quality and sustainability. Seeq is a privately held virtual company with employees across the United States and sales representation in Asia, Canada, Europe and South America. Since 2011, Best in Biz Awards has been the only independent business awards program judged by a who’s who of prominent reporters and editors from top-tier publications from North America and around the world. Over the years, judges in the prestigious awards program have ranged from Associated Press to the Wall Street Journal and winners have spanned the spectrum, from blue-chip companies that form the bedrock of the global economy to some of the world’s most innovative start-ups and nimble local companies. Each year, Best in Biz Awards honors are conferred in two separate programs: North America and International, and in 100 categories, including company, team, executive, product and CSR, media, PR and other categories. 