SEMI Announces Election of Two New International Board Members SEMI, the industry association serving the global electronics design and manufacturing supply chain, has announced the election of two new members to the SEMI International Board. Dec. 13, 2023 - SEMI, the industry association serving the global electronics design and manufacturing supply chain, has announced the election of two new members to the SEMI International Board: Kai Beckmann, member of the Executive Board and CEO of the Electronics business sector of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany, as well as and Benjamin Loh, chair of the Management Board and president and CEO of ASM. The tenure of the new board members begins immediately.

“We congratulate the newly elected International Board members, Kai Beckmann and Benjamin Loh, and thank them for their commitment to guide SEMI in representing the global electronics manufacturing and design supply chain,” said SEMI President and CEO Ajit Manocha. “Kai and Benjamin add to the breadth and depth of knowledge on our Board of Directors and will help us to ensure that SEMI programs continue to advance semiconductor industry growth, address top concerns and deliver exceptional member value.”

SEMI’s 18 independent voting directors and 11 emeritus directors represent companies from Europe, China, Japan, Korea, North America and Taiwan, reflecting the global scope of the association’s activities. SEMI directors are elected by the general membership as voting members of the Board and can serve a total of five three-year terms.

Kai Beckmann joined the Executive Board of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany in April 2011. He has served as CEO of the Electronics business sector since September 2017. Under his leadership the business successfully transformed into a leading player in the global electronics materials market. Beyond Merck, he has several external mandates such as President of the German Federation of Chemical Employers' Associations and Chairman of the Advisory Board of Fraunhofer Institute for Computer Graphics Research.

Benjamin Loh was appointed Chair of the Management Board and President and CEO of ASM in May 2020. He is a non-executive director of ASMPT and in the past held positions as non-executive director at Schneeberger, Schweiter Technologies AG, and Liteq BV. Loh was a SEMI China regional advisory board member while employed with Unaxis Corporation and living in China from 2021 to 2005. SEMI connects 3,000 member companies and 1.3 million professionals worldwide to advance the technology and business of electronics design and manufacturing. SEMI members are responsible for the innovations in materials, design, equipment, software, devices and services that enable smarter, faster, more powerful and more affordable electronic products. Electronic System Design Alliance (ESD Alliance), FlexTech, the Fab Owners Alliance (FOA), the MEMS & Sensors Industry Group (MSIG), Nano-Bio Materials Consortium (NBMC) and SOI Consortium are SEMI Strategic Technology Communities. 