SYSPRO ERP and SugarCRM partner to offer integrated ERP and CRM solution SYSPRO and SugarCRM are partnering to provide an integrated ERP and CRM solution to mid-market manufacturers and distributors. The joint SYSPRO ERP and SugarCRM offering delivers two-way sharing of information from both platforms. SYSPRO explains in a press statement that when sales teams have real-time access to ERP data through the CRM system, they can check product availability and process orders accordingly. The integration reportedly provides sales and customer service teams with up-to-date inventory information from the ERP system. This allows them to provide product availability and delivery timeframes to customers. “When looking for a best-of-breed CRM partner who understood mid-market manufacturing and distribution, SugarCRM was the obvious choice,” said Sanjay Ejantkar, vice-president of global alliances at SYSPRO Americas. “We already have several customers seeing enormous benefits even prior to launch. We look forward to continuing that momentum through this strategic partnership.” SYSPRO notes that its customers can align the front and back offices to optimize inventory, streamline supply chain and manufacturing operations, and drive additional revenue. SugarCRM’s AI-infused platform can analyze transactional and catalogue data from SYSPRO to determine what products a customer is most likely to buy, suggest items to be cross-sold or upsold and then turn the sale into a step-by-step action for the sales rep. “Powerful CRM and ERP integrations fulfill the need for a complete ‘business operating system’ spanning across the back-office and front-office to realize maximum productivity and efficiency within the business. Together with SYSPRO ERP, the Sugar platform will do the work to unlock customer insights, improve the experience by providing a 360-degree view of the customer, enable better decision-making with real-time analytics, and enhance collaboration with a single source of truth for all customer data,” says Clint Oram, SugarCRM’s co-founder and chief strategy officer. 