LogRhythm Sponsors 2023 Scottish Cyber Awards, Supporting Cybersecurity Collaboration Keith McDevitt of the Scottish Government has been recognized with the Lifetime Achievement Award, sponsored by LogRhythm. Dec. 12, 2023 - LogRhythm, the company helping security teams stop breaches by turning disconnected data and signals into trustworthy insights, has sponsored the 2023 Scottish Cyber Awards to strengthen its support for cybersecurity innovation across the UK. Through its contribution to the awards, LogRhythm aims to encourage industry collaboration to enable more organizations to effectively navigate the modern threat landscape. 
 
During the ceremony, Keith McDevitt of the Scottish Government was recognized for his contribution to the industry and dedication to building cyber resilience in Scotland in the Lifetime Achievement Award, sponsored by LogRhythm. The awards were attended by LogRhythm guests across its cybersecurity customer and partner landscape including Distology, BT, Softcat, Getronics and XMA.  
 
LogRhythm also offered guest seats to new talent in Scotland looking to start their career in cybersecurity. One of those seats was taken by an IT undergraduate from Edinburgh Napier University, who is now looking at a placement year in NHS Scotland’s IT department further to making industry connections at the event. 
 
“The Scottish Cyber Awards provides an excellent opportunity for the industry to come together and celebrate the efforts taken to strengthen the cybersecurity landscape in Scotland. This is especially important as attacks continue to accelerate in sophistication,” said Kev Eley, VP of UK & Europe at LogRhythm. “It was great to wear my kilt and family tartan and show our support for all the fantastic work being done by individuals and organizations across the board. Congratulations to Keith for the recognition of his ongoing commitment to building cyber resilience in Scotland.” 
 
The Scottish Cyber Awards took place on Nov. 13, 2023, to champion Scotland’s leading cyber educational and business talent. This year marked the 7th installment of the awards run by the Cyber and Fraud Centre – Scotland and saw the distribution of 14 prizes to worthy recipients from across the sector. The event served as an opportunity for figures across the industry to unite, network and celebrate their successes. 
 
“The innovation, ingenuity and dedication celebrated is more crucial now than ever. With the threat of cybercrime intensifying, we, the cyber security community, know that we have a battle ahead of us,” said Jude McCorry, CEO of the Cyber and Fraud Centre–Scotland. “It is therefore both reassuring and inspiring to see the skills and expertise demonstrated by all the winners and nominees, and we were honored to bring industry figures together to acknowledge all that we’ve accomplished in 2023.” 
 
As part of its promise to its customers, LogRhythm provides new product innovations and integrations every quarter. Its latest product release introduced significant enhancements and expansion to LogRhythm Axon and the full suite of LogRhythm solutions, empowering Security Operation Center (SOC) teams to mitigate threats with greater efficiency. The Scottish Cyber Awards has rapidly become a cornerstone of Scotland’s annual cyber calendar. The awards not only honour the outstanding talent in Scotland but also unites the cyber community for an enjoyable evening of networking. LogRhythm helps security teams stop breaches by turning disconnected data and signals into trustworthy insights. From connecting the dots across diverse log and threat intelligence sources to using sophisticated machine learning that spots suspicious anomalies in network traffic and user behavior, LogRhythm accurately pinpoints cyberthreats and empowers professionals to respond with speed and efficiency. 
 
With cloud-native and self-hosted deployment flexibility, out-of-the-box integrations and advisory services, LogRhythm makes it easy to realize value quickly and adapt to an ever-evolving threat landscape. Together, LogRhythm and our customers confidently monitor, detect, investigate and respond to cyberattacks. 