A3 Announces Fall 2023 PlugFest Results for GigE Vision and Camera Link HS The Association for Advancing Automation (A3) is pleased to announce the results of its Fall 2023 PlugFest. Dec. 12, 2023 - The Association for Advancing Automation (A3), the leading global automation trade association of the robotics, machine vision, motion control and industrial AI industries, is pleased to announce the results of its Fall 2023 PlugFest, which saw testing and validation of machine vision and imaging products leveraging the Camera Link HS (CLHS) , GigE Vision and USB3 Vision standards.

Held at the International Vision Standards Meeting (IVSM) hosted by Teledyne DALSA and A3, the PlugFest was designed to help validate the interoperability of products against the requirements of the above vision standards. On Oct. 17 in Toronto, Canada, the following products were certified as compliant to the corresponding standard:

GigE Vision Camera Link HS “Vision standards make machine vision and imaging technology much more accessible to end users by providing a defined model that allows for more effective use of vision technology, which in turn means larger potential markets for individual manufacturers,” said Bob McCurrach, director of standards development at A3. “These standards also help create a tighter community, which helps proliferate the technology and better serve the vision community.”
 
He added, “We’re excited by the latest additions to the GigE Vision and CLHS standards, and we look forward to expanding and improving these and the other vision standards at the next IVSM and PlugFest in Tokyo.” The next PlugFest will be held at the Spring IVSM meeting in Tokyo, Japan, which will be hosted by the Japan Industrial Imaging Association (JIIA) on April 16, 2024. The meeting is set to cover GigE Vision, USB3 Vision and CoaXPress. IVSM meetings are supported by the global G3 group, which comprises A3, JIIA, the European Machine Vision Association (EMVA), the Mechanical Engineering Industry Association (VDMA) and the China Machine Vision Union (CMVU). IVSM meetings are held to discuss the latest developments in machine vision standards. The Association for Advancing Automation (A3) is the leading global advocate for the benefits of automating. A3 promotes automation technologies and ideas that transform the way business is done. Members of A3 represent more than 1,250 manufacturers, component suppliers, system integrators, end users, academic institutions, research groups and consulting firms that drive automation forward worldwide. 