SE Asia Territories Becoming Global Manufacturing Hubs A series of global manufacturing hubs are being established in south-east Asia, including those for semiconductors in Malaysia, electronics in Vietnam and automotive in Thailand. As manufacturing becomes increasingly globalized, our research indicates that a number of countries in south-east Asia are becoming hubs for certain products and components. These include Malaysia–semiconductors; Vietnam–electronics; and Thailand–automotive.

The latest work by analysts at Interact Analysis shows the trend for international companies establishing facilities in the region is showing little sign of stopping, despite predictions of a growing trend for reshoring and nearshoring in many western markets and legislation such as the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) in the United States encouraging domestic production of technology such as lithium-ion batteries. Malaysia, Vietnam and Thailand all offer relatively cheap destinations for the manufacture of parts for export to other markets.

In addition to global corporations choosing to base manufacturing operations in south-east Asia, some Chinese manufacturers are also expanding operations to other countries in the region. Creating manufacturing hubs, such as those in Malaysia, Vietnam and Thailand, can help eliminate inefficiencies, provide proximity to expertise, remove time zone problems and provide greater control over production costs.

However, as the Interact Analysis Manufacturing Industry Output (MIO) Tracker demonstrates, these hubs in south-east Asia are unlikely to cause huge concern to China in terms of capacity and competition because of the sheer size of its manufacturing economy. For example, China’s automotive sector alone was worth an estimated $1.704tn in 2023, compared with just $46bn for Thailand’s this year. The APAC region’s other manufacturing powerhouse, India, will similarly be affected very little by the creation of the hubs in Malaysia, Thailand and Vietnam, largely because these are not mainstays of its manufacturing economy, which continues to be dominated by food & beverage and metals (although automotive has a growing market share), and because of the sheer size of its manufacturing sector.

Malaysia, Thailand and Vietnam are all relatively small areas, where the creation of manufacturing hubs and high turnover by a small number of companies can have a significant impact on their economies in a relatively short space of time. Malaysia has seen a series of key announcements relating to its semiconductor manufacturing industry in recent years, including leading international names. The country’s semiconductor manufacturing industry now comprises 20.5% of its total manufacturing industry output. 