Rajant Wins IET Industry Excellence Platinum Award 2023 Rajant Corporation, the pioneer of Kinetic Mesh wireless networks, is an Institute of Engineering & Technology (IET) Industry Excellence Platinum Award winner for 2023. Dec. 6, 2023 - Rajant Corporation, the pioneer of Kinetic Mesh wireless networks, is an Institute of Engineering & Technology (IET) Industry Excellence Platinum Award winner for 2023. IET is a UK-based 149-year-old organization with a membership of 170,000 engineering and technology professionals in 148 countries. The announcement was made on November 25th during the IET Malaysia Prestige Lecture and Award Dinner 2023, which recognizes the hard work and achievements of individuals and industry players who have contributed immensely to the nation of Malaysia and beyond. 
 
There to receive the award were representatives from Rajant and channel partners Automation & Control Systems and Red Team. Sentiments about the significance of this award are:
 
"Automation & Control Systems has been a Kinetic Mesh Partner of Rajant since 2019. Rajant Corporation's unique wireless mesh technology has been a game-changer for our clients, especially those running mission-critical and safety applications," said  Steven Chan, business development director, Automation & Control Systems Malaysia. "I'm happy that IET recognizes Rajant's engineering contribution with the prestige of this award."

"Red Team serves clients with mission-critical applications that require extremely reliable, low-latency wireless connectivity," said Dato Shahril, managing director, Red Team Sdn Bhd. "We found the performance of Rajant Kinetic Mesh networking to be unparalleled in the market. This prominent award from IET simply reaffirms the engineering leadership of Rajant Corporation."
 
"I'm honored to receive this award on behalf of Rajant Corporation," said Ong Beng Hui, Sales Director, Rajant Corporation. "This notable distinction from the Institute of Engineering and Technology underscores the contribution Rajant makes to solving communication and connectivity challenges for high broadband industrial applications."
 
This industry award for excellence underscores the unique nature of Rajant's technology, which extends communications in hard-to-reach places. Rajant Kinetic Mesh, the leading industrial wireless mesh network, is fully mobile and intelligently adapts to change—instantly and without outside intervention—to keep mission-critical and safety operations moving. The simultaneous combination of mobility-enablement for M2M communications, scalability and high bandwidth with low latency, without the need for costly infrastructure or ongoing management, gives Rajant the edge over other fault-tolerant networking options. Rajant Corporation is the broadband communications technology company that invented Kinetic Mesh networking, BreadCrumb wireless nodes and InstaMesh networking software. With Rajant, customers can rapidly deploy a highly adaptable and scalable network that leverages the power of real-time data to deliver on-demand, mission-critical business intelligence. A low-latency, high-throughput and secure solution for a variety of data, voice, video and autonomous applications, Rajant's Kinetic Mesh networks provide industrial customers with full mobility, allowing them to take their private network applications and data anywhere. With successful deployments in more than 80 countries for customers in military, mining, ports, rail, oil & gas, petrochemical plants, municipalities, and agriculture. Rajant is headquartered in Malvern, Pennsylvania, with additional facilities and offices in Arizona and Kentucky. 