Is Cybersecurity as a Service (CSaaS) the Answer? CSaaS, or Cybersecurity-as-a-service, is a subscription-based approach to cybersecurity that offers organizations cybersecurity protection on demand. The economy is on the minds of business leaders. C-suites recognize survival depends upon the ability to safeguard systems and information. They must redesign for resilience, mitigate risk, strategically deploy assets and investments and assign accountability. Do more with Less is the ongoing mantra across industries in technology and cyberspace.

As senior leaders revisit their growth strategies, it's an excellent time to assess where they are on the cyber-risk spectrum and how significant the complexity costs have become. Although these will vary across business units, industries and geographies, now for cyber, there is a new delivery model with the pay-as-you-go and use what you need from a cyber talent pool availability with the tools and platform that enable simplification. CSaaS, or Cybersecurity-as-a-service, is a subscription-based approach to cybersecurity that offers organizations cybersecurity protection on demand. It is a pay-as-you-go model with a third-party vendor, where services can vary and be tailored to the organization's needs. These services can include threat monitoring, compliance with industry standards, employee training and penetration testing, which simulates an attack on the network.

One of the main advantages of CSaaS is that it takes the burden off the business to maintain a cybersecurity team, which can be challenging to hire today. It also allows organizations to scale as their business grows without needing to keep recruiting and hiring cybersecurity professionals. When choosing a CSaaS vendor, several factors must be considered to ensure that you select the right one for your business. These factors include: Different industries are at varying stages of maturity with digital transformation, and within each sector, some organizations have progressed much quicker than others. Therefore, it is vital to assess your organization's specific cybersecurity requirements as it continues along the digital transformation path. That means it has never been more critical to work with a provider that suits your particular needs but can also cover a wide range of use cases.  

For more information on the Cybersecurity-as-a-Service, check out the latest eBook written by an analyst from Enterprise Strategy Group showcasing the importance behind these subscription-based solutions and how working with a security provider like AT&T to help organizations achieve their security objectives and enable to innovate faster.

This piece was originally published by AT&T Business. 