Integration of AOAI Delivers Empowered User Experience, Unparalleled Ease of Use Industrial AI software leader Canvass AI, in working with Microsoft OpenAI labs, leverages the power of Azure OpenAI (AOAI) for copilot automation capabilities in its industrial AI software. Dec. 7, 2023 - Industrial AI software leader Canvass AI, in working with Microsoft OpenAI labs, leverages the power of Azure OpenAI (AOAI) for copilot automation capabilities in its industrial AI software. Accessible from anywhere within the Canvass AI software, the integration of AOAI delivers an empowered user experience and unparalleled ease of use for implementing repeatable AI Solutions.

“Empowering industrial engineers with unprecedented efficiency, our Canvass AI software introduces ground-breaking capabilities that collectively redefine the landscape of data interaction and manipulation. Together, these capabilities not only drive innovation but establish a foundation for reliable, repeatable and scalable solutions, empowering users to navigate the complexities of AI-driven workflows with unprecedented ease,” said Humera Malik, CEO Canvass AI.

“Industry software integration with powerful LLMs such as those from Azure OpenAI offers more than just a chatbot interface,” said Joe Lamming, industry analyst at independent research and advisory firm Verdantix. “Determining the relevance of data from across disparate industrial systems can be hugely complex – so using LLMs to distil such analysis in automated information retrieval systems offers operations and maintenance decision-makers access to unparalleled situational awareness.”

Canvass AI brings its industrial AI expertise to Microsoft Azure OpenAI, focusing on transformative applications for process manufacturers. Through recent collaborative efforts, the Canvass AI and Microsoft teams explored various challenges and use cases, culminating in the release of these AOAI-powered features: Canvass AI puts industrial companies in control of their data to achieve operational excellence. Designed to be readily accessible and quick to deploy, companies use Canvass AI’s patented software for high performance decision making, to future-proof operations, and drive net-zero targets. Backed by Alphabet and Yamaha Motor Ventures, the company is recognized by CB Insights as one of the top technology companies that is advancing manufacturing. 