Flender Wins Prestigious Excellence Award from Caterpillar Inc. Drive specialist Flender has received the Supplier Excellence Recognition Award 2023 from US machinery manufacturer Caterpillar. Drive specialist Flender has received the Supplier Excellence Recognition Award 2023 from US machinery manufacturer Caterpillar. Flender received the award for maintaining 95% delivery reliability and zero defects. This achievement is awarded only to the top suppliers of Caterpillar. It positions Flender as a top supplier for its global Aftermarket (Reman) Division business. Flender supplies new gearboxes, remanufactured gearboxes, spare parts and couplings to Caterpillar for their 7495 Rope Shovel.

Caterpillar created the certification program to recognize those suppliers who demonstrate their commitment to excellence and drive a zero-defect culture within their organizations. Suppliers are certified by meeting or exceeding stringent performance standards, including product quality and on-time delivery.

Caterpillar’s top-performing suppliers meet or exceed rigorous requirements and achieve world-class certification levels under Caterpillar’s Supplier Excellence programming from May 2022 through June 2023.

“Caterpillar’s reputation for world-class products and services stands on the shoulders of our global and diverse team–and that team includes our international and diverse supply network. By working together, we can deliver on our purpose to help our customers build a better, more sustainable world,” said Pam Heminger, Caterpillar senior vice president for the Strategic Procurement and Planning Division.

“We are very honored to receive the Supplier Excellence Award from Caterpillar for 2023 and to be recognized as one of their top suppliers. It reflects our long and outstanding partnership with Caterpillar. We look forward to continuing to deliver proven quality products for many years to come,” said Kerry Klein, President Flender Corporation Flender, headquartered in Bocholt, Germany, is a leading global supplier for mechanical and electrical drive systems and has the reputation for highest performance, innovation, quality and reliability of drive components for more than 120 years. Flender offers a broad variety of gear units, couplings and generators and associated services, with a focus on key industries such as wind power, cement, mining, oil & gas, power generation, water and wastewater, marine, conveyor and crane technology. Flender products and services combine the latest technology with extremely high quality and have been reliably providing the optimal transmission of power for decades. Flender has around 9,000 employees globally. 