HANNOVER MESSE Launches Call for Papers The submissions should be assigned to the trending topics of Industry 4.0; Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning; Energy for Industry; CO2-neutral Production; or Hydrogen and Fuel Cells. All interested parties who would like to take part in the supporting program of HANNOVER MESSE by giving a presentation are invited to participate in the Call for Papers. The submissions should be assigned to the trending topics of Industry 4.0; Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning; Energy for Industry; CO2-neutral Production; or Hydrogen and Fuel Cells. The deadline for submissions is Feb. 12, 2024.

The Call for Papers by HANNOVER MESSE is aimed at any exhibitor or partner who would like to enrich the content of the forum program at the world’s leading industrial trade fair by giving a presentation. Four forum stages are available for this purpose:

On the Industry 4.0 Conference Stage, automation specialists, software providers and users will present their solutions, with the focus on the next level of Industry 4.0. Visionaries, experts and practitioners present up-to-the-minute trends and innovations, from asset administration shells to OPC UA, machine learning, cloud and edge computing, right through to data spaces.

The Energy 4.0 Conference Stage is all about energy security, climate neutrality, digitalization of the energy transition, plus sustainability. The featured topics are Smart Energy for Industry 4.0, AI in Energy Technology, Energy Efficiency and Circular Economy and Resource Efficiency.

The Industrial Transformation Conference Stage serves as platform for a cross-technology and cross-industry exchange of ideas, views and experiences: over five days of HANNOVER MESSE, the spotlight will be shone on the megatrends in industry. Partners and experts from various disciplines shape a high-caliber program and present use cases, insights and solutions.

The 5G & Industrial Wireless Conference Stage focuses on long-term and sustainable communication solutions for across-the-board connectivity and an industrial wireless ecosystem. This topic is of key importance, since making production facilities and intralogistics even more flexible, autonomous and efficient calls for corresponding conditions to be established.

The Industrial Startups Conference Stage provides a platform for business founders, with the spotlight on revolutionary solutions and business models for industry. 