Lena Risse, Precision Toolmaker at Risse Tool Technology, Wins ANCA’s Inaugural Female Machinist Award As part of its esteemed Tool of the Year event, ANCA introduced an exclusive new category for Female Machinists. As part of its esteemed Tool of the Year event, ANCA introduced an exclusive new category for Female Machinists. A panel of experienced professionals evaluated submissions using the following criteria: Johanna Boland, strategy and communications manager at ANCA, expressed her pride on introducing the first ever Female Machinist of the Year award for ANCA. “Since joining this industry I have met and worked with some truly intelligent, driven female leaders. However, let’s face it, female machinists are not that common and encouraging diversity can only make our sector stronger and more successful.”

“Women considering a career in our industry need to see there are real and exciting pathways open to them. All the entrants are fantastic examples that ANCA has been proud to showcase and celebrate, taking a step further to increase the visibility of female machinists!”

The winner, Lena Risse from Risse Tool Technology in Germany demonstrates the passion and dedication of women in the industry. Having completed an apprenticeship as a precision tool mechanic, she was the first female in a decade in her region to pursue a specialist master's degree in the field.

Lena advocates for process optimization in production and hopes to inspire more women to enter this profession by setting a positive example of how women can excel in precision tool manufacturing.

Lena said, "I think it's very important to give women a stage in our industry. Of course, it’s great to win this competition, but I am also grateful that this platform now exists. I enjoy showing with my work that not only men can grind top tools, but in some situations it’s women who find the better solutions."

“I am the first woman to take up the Master's degree as a precision tool mechanic at my university, Jakob Preh School in Bad Neustadt an der Saale. Even in training, female classmates are a rarity and I am fighting to break down typical gender stereotypes. Through my work, I hope to encourage many women to dare to do an apprenticeship in the skilled trades so that the industry will continue to develop in the coming years thanks to the clever ideas of courageous women.” Winner: Lena Risse, precision toolmaker at Risse Tool Technology GmbH
Lena has completed an apprenticeship as a precision tool mechanic immediately after her high school graduation and is pursuing her master's degree. She is particularly interested in the optimization of production processes and hopes to inspire more women to enter precision tool manufacturing.

Second place: Christina Diamantidis, tool grinder CNC, Fraisa GmbH
Christina has been working at Fraisa GmbH for 13 years with a total of 18 years of experience in the industry. Christina is highly qualified and displays a profound passion for the profession of tool grinding. Most notably Christina is currently involved in a groundbreaking project in collaboration with a university, aiming to optimize the re-tooling process through digitization and the use of artificial intelligence. This innovative approach underscores the growing recognition of AI in this industry and its significant role in the future.

Third place: Kajal Bharat Padwal, senior production engineer at Hrithik Tools PVT LTD 
Kajal has been working at Hrithik Tools PVT LTD for six years, specializing in operating ANCA machines. One project Kajal delivered was to create superior wear resistance and extend tool life where she worked closely with abrasive manufacturers to develop specialized grinding wheels for high-speed steel tool grinding. Kajal stands out with exceptional qualifications, is a dedicated team player and approaches her work with great enthusiasm.

Fourth place: Ellen Robson, Renovo Solutions 
Ellen is a talented grinder from the northeast of England with great enthusiasm and passion. She dedicates herself to crafting cutting tools and has accumulated four years of experience in this field. Ellen demonstrated outstanding skills and solution-oriented business mindset and is someone who tackles challenges and always looks beyond the horizon to find innovative solutions. She sees herself as a role model for other female grinders, and we thank Ellen for her outstanding application. ANCA is a market leading manufacturer of CNC grinding machines. It was founded in 1974 in Melbourne, Australia where the company still has its global headquarters. ANCA has offices in the UK, Germany, China, Thailand, India, Japan, Brazil and the USA as well as a comprehensive network of representatives and agents worldwide.

ANCA CNC grinders are used for manufacturing precision cutting tools and components across a diverse range of competitive industries including cutting tool manufacture, automotive, aerospace, electronics and medical. 