Yokogawa Receives Highest MSCI ESG Rating of AAA for First Time, Releases Sustainability Report Yokogawa Electric Corporation has received the highest rating of AAA in the 2023 MSCI ESG Ratings, a globally recognized ESG investment evaluation index. The company has also released the 2023 Yokogawa Sustainability Report. Yokogawa Electric Corporation has received the highest rating of AAA in the 2023 MSCI ESG Ratings, a globally recognized ESG investment evaluation index. Also, the company has released the 2023 Yokogawa Sustainability Report. The receipt of the AAA rating, up from the previous AA rating, is a first for the company, and an acknowledgment of its robust corporate governance, effective human resources development and business initiatives that help to solve social issues.

For the MSCI ESG Ratings, companies are rated on a seven-point scale of AAA to CCC, according to their exposure to industry-specific ESG risks and their ability to manage those risks relative to their industry peers.
 
In addition, Yokogawa Electric is a constituent of all the ESG indices adopted by Japan's Government Pension Investment Fund (GPIF) for the selection of Japanese equities (as of Nov. 21, 2023). Yokogawa has set the "Three goals" for sustainability to achieve its vision for society by 2050 and has identified the key sustainability issues and areas where it can contribute toward their achievement. It will continue to contribute to society through its business activities, with the aim of achieving a sustainable society in line with Yokogawa's Purpose: "Utilizing our ability to measure and connect, we fulfill our responsibilities for the future of our planet.” Yokogawa Electric Corporation has released the 2023 Yokogawa Sustainability Report, a document that reports to stakeholders on the progress that the Yokogawa Group has achieved toward its “Three goals” for sustainability, in accordance with the company's raison d'etre set out in the Yokogawa's Purpose statement.
 
This year, we have expanded the Our Stories section and introduce a number of unique Yokogawa initiatives in six contribution areas that aim to address social issues and grow the company. We also provide more information about our efforts to engage with all stakeholders, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and preserve biodiversity. In addition, we report on the activities of the Sustainability Committee, which was established last year and is playing a principal role in the promotion of sustainability across the Group. 