Q3 2023 Global Semiconductor Equipment Billings Drop 11% Year-Over-Year Global semiconductor equipment billings contracted 11% year-over-year to US $25.6 billion in the third quarter of 2023, while quarter-over-quarter billings slipped 1% during the same period. Nov. 30, 2023 - Global semiconductor equipment billings contracted 11% year-over-year to US $25.6 billion in the third quarter of 2023, while quarter-over-quarter billings slipped 1% during the same period, SEMI announced today in its Worldwide Semiconductor Equipment Market Statistics (WWSEMS) Report.

“The Q3 2023 dip in equipment billings was due to softening chip demand,” said Ajit Manocha, SEMI president and CEO. “However, China has shown strong demand and spending power for mature-node technologies, a sign of the industry's resilience and growth potential in the long run.”



Compiled from data submitted by members of SEMI and the Semiconductor Equipment Association of Japan (SEAJ), the WWSEMS Report is a summary of the monthly billings figures for the global semiconductor equipment industry. 

Following are quarterly billings data in billions of U.S. dollars with quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year changes by region:


 
The SEMI Equipment Market Data Subscription (EMDS) provides comprehensive market data for the global semiconductor equipment market. The subscription includes three reports: Download a sample of the EMDS report.

For more information about the report or to subscribe, please contact the SEMI Market Intelligence Team at [email protected]. More details are also available on the SEMI Market Data webpage. SEMI connects 3,000 companies and 1.3 million professionals worldwide to advance the technology and business of electronics design and manufacturing. SEMI members are responsible for the innovations in materials, design, equipment, software, devices and services that enable smarter, faster, more powerful and more affordable electronic products. Electronic System Design Alliance (ESD Alliance), FlexTech, the Fab Owners Alliance (FOA), the MEMS & Sensors Industry Group (MSIG), Nano-Bio Materials Consortium (NBMC) and SOI Consortium are SEMI Strategic Technology Communities. 