IFS Reinforces AI Capabilities Across Automation Segments with IFS Cloud November Release This second of its twice-yearly IFS Cloud releases for 2023 focuses on helping manufacturers leverage digital technology to build agility and operational excellence. Nov. 30, 2023 - Global cloud enterprise software company IFS highlighted its dedication to helping its customers increase productivity and leverage digital technology to build agility and operational excellence by announcing general availability of the second of its twice-yearly IFS Cloud releases for 2023. The content of this November release will help customers make organizational-wide impacts by making artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning (ML), Internet of Things (IoT) technology more widely available.
 
IFS Chief Product Officer Christian Pedersen said, “Accelerating digital transformation remains a top priority for our customers as they continue to depend on technology to build predictability in performance and resilience in their business. With this latest release of IFS Cloud, we have stayed true to our product vision to enable customers to adopt our innovation out of the box. This includes our commitment to providing a product that stays evergreen. Delivering a composable option that provides a clear path to always being up to date with the latest digital and AI innovation is central to that.”
 
IFS.ai capabilities already exist in IFS Cloud, said Pedersen, and the company is continuing investment into this area. From this release onward, the capabilities of the company’s recently launched artificial intelligence architecture, IFS.ai, will be directly woven into all IFS products and industry specific capabilities. “This makes AI widely available across customers’ organizations, enabling them to simulate, optimize and automate industry-specific business processes and increase productivity of their people, assets and services across their entire business operations,” he said. Those companies who have already invested in digitalization will be able to leverage AI faster and manage their operational performance, as well as increase productivity.
 
The November IFS Cloud release continues to focus on three strategic business themes: optimize people, assets and services; connect global operations; and achieve ESG goals profitably. IFS Cloud uses AI, ML, IoT and other automation to streamline processes that: IFS develops and delivers cloud enterprise software for companies around the world who manufacture and distribute goods, build and maintain assets and manage service-focused operations. Within our single platform, our industry specific products are innately connected to a single data model and use embedded digital innovation so that our customers can be their best when it really matters to their customers—at the Moment of Service. The industry expertise of our people and of our growing ecosystem, together with a commitment to deliver value at every single step, has made IFS a recognized leader and the most recommended supplier in our sector. Our team of over 6,000 employees every day live our values of agility, trustworthiness and collaboration in how we support our 6,500+ customers. 