Yokogawa and FPT Software Ink Global Partnership to Advance DX Solution Offerings The partnership will help accelerate the growth of Yokogawa's DX portfolio of applications and services while helping FPT Software expand its market reach. Yokogawa Electric Corporation, a leading provider of industrial automation and test and measurement solutions and FPT Software Company Limited, a global technology and IT services provider announce a global supplier framework agreement for the development and deployment of digital transformation (DX) services to strengthen operational technology (OT)–information technology (IT) convergence in the industrial sector. The partnership will help accelerate the growth of Yokogawa's DX portfolio of applications and services while helping FPT Software expand its market reach. The agreement is in effect, and the coverage is worldwide.

Under this agreement, Yokogawa and FPT Software will cooperate in the planning and execution of DX strategies and will utilize the knowledge and know-how they have accumulated through these efforts to explore and develop new market opportunities. This partnership is based on the two companies’ successful collaboration in the offering of internal and external DX solutions and services since 2022.
 
Specifically, FPT Software will strengthen Yokogawa’s IT capabilities by providing support in the areas of application development, system maintenance, infrastructure deployment, infrastructure operation and the offering of software as a service. Yokogawa will leverage its solid foundation of OT know-how and experience to support FPT Software in applying its technologies to the field, while continuously enhancing its own DX-related solutions and services. As a result, the customers of both companies will be able to experience a broader array of enhanced and differentiated DX services that make combined use of OT and IT.
 
Pham Minh Tuan, CEO of FPT Software, commented, “Technology application in the industrial context is always one of FPT Software’s priorities, as we aim to drive agility, efficiency and innovation for our clients, enabling them to stay competitive and improve time-to-market. This collaboration with Yokogawa will allow both parties to blend their IT and OT expertise to revolutionize the industrial sector, as well as strengthen FPT Software’s growth in both the Japanese and global markets.”
 
Yukihiro Funyu, a senior vice president of Yokogawa and head of the Digital Strategy Headquarters and DX-Platform Center in the Digital Solutions Headquarters, said, “Through this partnership, we will further accelerate internal DX using FPT Software's cutting-edge digital technology and promote our transformation into a digital enterprise. Through this experience of transformation, we will strengthen our ability to make proposals to customers who are promoting DX, and by providing services that combine the IT and OT of both companies, we will support customers’ DX globally.” FPT Software, a subsidiary of FPT Corporation, is a global technology and IT services provider headquartered in Vietnam, with $803 million in revenue (2022) and more than 27,000 employees in 28 countries.
 
The company champions complex business opportunities and challenges with its world-class services in Advanced Analytics, AI, Digital Platforms, Cloud, Hyperautomation, IoT, Low-code and so on. It has partnered with over 1,000+ clients worldwide, 89 of which are Fortune Global  500 companies in Aviation, Automotive, Banking, Financial Services and Insurance,  Healthcare, Logistics, Manufacturing, Utilities and more. Yokogawa provides advanced solutions in the areas of measurement, control and information to customers across a broad range of industries, including energy, chemicals, materials, pharmaceuticals and food. Yokogawa addresses customer issues regarding the optimization of production, assets and the supply chain with the effective application of digital technologies, enabling the transition to autonomous operations.

Founded in Tokyo in 1915, Yokogawa continues to work toward a sustainable society through its 17,000+ employees in a global network of 129 companies spanning 60 countries. 