Deutsche Messe Invites Nominations for the Engineer Woman Award Every year, Deutsche Messe honors an expert female professional from the STEM sector. Every year, Deutsche Messe honors an expert female professional from the STEM sector. This person is selected for having implemented innovative trends in the technical environment of a company through her commitment, ideas or work performance. Besides this, nominations are also invited for the Young Engineer Woman Award, which will be presented for the second time.

This will go to a female natural scientist from the STEM field who is no more than 30 years old, and who has made exceptional contributions in the technical sphere, or has otherwise performed above and beyond the call of duty.

Both invitations for nominations are aimed at all companies and institutions from Germany and abroad. Only one nomination per award is allowed for each company/institution. The deadline for entries is Feb. 15, 2024.

The awards will be presented on April 25 and 26 during the FEMWORX Career Congress at HANNOVER MESSE in a ceremony that is sure to attract considerable media attention. Nominations are free of charge. The winners of the Engineer Woman 2024 Award and the Young Engineer Woman Award 2024 will be selected by an independent jury consisting of members of the Congress Advisory Board. This jury will initially determine three nominees for each of these awards. The two award winners will be announced at the FEMWORX Congress.

The nomination documents can be downloaded from the Internet here.

The Engineer Powerwoman Award 2023 went to Dr. Christina Franke. She has been with Bosch Rexroth in Stuttgart since June 2022, working there as head of development in the Assembly Technology business unit. She started her professional career in June 2004 in the Bosch Group as a trainee, quickly progressing to take on managerial tasks.

The Young Engineering Award 2023 went to Lisa Ihde from the Hasso Plattner Institute. She is an author and software engineer. 