How BESS Merges Power Flow with Data Flow Battery energy storage systems, or BESSs, are becoming more critical as governments and the global energy industry try to keep up with sustainable development and energy transition. Battery energy storage systems, or BESSs, are becoming more critical as governments and the global energy industry try to keep up with sustainable development and energy transition. 
 
Recently, several governments have intensified their investments in large-scale BESS systems. For example, in 2022, the US passed the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA), allocating $370 billion to finance climate change and renewable energy initiatives with 30% of the investment offset targeted at energy storage equipment. In addition, China is expanding its domestic energy sector by working to achieve a 30-gigawatt energy storage scale by 2025. As a result of these and other investments, energy storage technology is increasingly being recognized as the "fifth pillar" in the power grid system, in addition to the pillars of generation, transmission, distribution and consumption. Today, a BESS is more than just a charging and discharging device. It has evolved into an advanced power intelligence management system integrating power flow with data flow. To optimize power usage, BESS operations entail battery management and create secure network connections to exchange data with power generation and the grid.
 
However, because of these improvements, power and automation system providers now face additional networking and cybersecurity challenges. In the past, the primary requirement for network transmission was merely connectivity. Today, with the deep integration of BESS into national power grids, network availability and cyber security have surged to the front of the line.
 
In recent years, industrial network and industrial control cybersecurity technologies have made progress and are now integrated into various critical infrastructures. Below are four network technology requirements that BESS providers should consider when designing systems: In conclusion, with the rapid advancement of technology coupled with the strong trend of energy transition, the role of BESS in power systems is becoming increasingly important. Its successful operation relies on integrating expertise from different domains, such as electrochemistry, automation and network communication. This interdisciplinary collaboration emphasizes the importance of recruiting more cross-industry talents to ensure that BESS technology meets future energy needs while ensuring operational efficiency, security and sustainability.

For more information, contact Moxa. 