Siemens and Copperleaf Join Forces to Drive Technical and Economic Grid Planning Siemens Smart Infrastructure has today announced its collaboration with Copperleaf, a Canadian-based provider of asset investment planning software, growing its existing ecosystem of grid software partners. Siemens Smart Infrastructure has today announced its collaboration with Copperleaf, a Canadian-based provider of asset investment planning software, growing its existing ecosystem of grid software partners. The strategic partnership aims to optimize investment and technical grid planning for customers, including transmission system operators (TSOs) and distribution system operators (DSOs), by combining the companies’ expertise.

The shift to a decarbonized energy future requires these organizations to adopt a holistic approach to planning and optimization through strategic and operational considerations. The partnership is part of the Siemens Xcelerator ever-expanding ecosystem of partners. Siemens Xcelerator is an open digital business platform that enables customers to accelerate their digital transformation easier, faster and at scale

Siemens and Copperleaf recognize the need for a comprehensive solution that encompasses the entire energy value chain. Copperleaf provides decision analytics software solutions to companies managing critical infrastructure. Its value-based approach to decision making helps clients manage risk, deliver on their performance expectations, achieve their strategy and ESG goals and maximize capital efficiency. The company works with many of the world’s largest and most respected utilities worldwide, managing more than $2.9 trillion assets. Siemens is a leading provider of grid planning, operations and maintenance software and brings extensive power systems and grid control domain expertise to the partnership.

“We are excited to join forces with Copperleaf. A key focus of this collaboration will be to integrate and optimize technical and investment planning to increase the potential for cost savings and improved reliability," said Sabine Erlinghagen, CEO Siemens Grid Software. "Well-informed investment decisions help utilities take the smartest actions to increase their much-needed grid capacity. As the world embarks on an ambitious journey towards a more sustainable and decarbonized energy future, the complexities and challenges faced by the energy industry have never been greater. It is imperative that organizations adopt a holistic approach, considering both the strategic and operational aspects of their assets and businesses."

“By bringing together Siemens' domain knowledge and advanced software solutions and Copperleaf’s industry-leading asset investment planning capabilities, TSOs and DSOs will gain comprehensive insights to generate capital efficiencies and maximize the value of their investments. This approach will help organizations achieve sustainable growth while meeting the increasing demands of their businesses and complying with essential environmental, social and governance (ESG) regulatory mandates,” said Paul Sakrzewski, CEO of Copperleaf. Siemens Smart Infrastructure (SI) is shaping the market for intelligent, adaptive infrastructure for today and the future. It addresses the pressing challenges of urbanization and climate change by connecting energy systems, buildings and industries. SI provides customers with a comprehensive end-to-end portfolio from a single source–with products, systems, solutions and services from the point of power generation all the way to consumption. With an increasingly digitalized ecosystem, it helps customers thrive and communities progress while contributing toward protecting the planet. Siemens Smart Infrastructure has its global headquarters in Zug, Switzerland. As of September 30, 2022, the business had around 72,700 employees worldwide. 