Rockwell Automation completes acquisition of autonomous robotics specialist Clearpath Robotics Rockwell Automation has completed its acquisition of Ontario, Canada-based Clearpath Robotics, a specialist in autonomous robotics, including autonomous mobile robots (AMRs) for industrial applications. The acquisition was announced in early September. “We are delighted to welcome the Clearpath Robotics and OTTO Motors teams to Rockwell,” said Blake Moret, chairman and CEO, of Rockwell Automation. “This acquisition marks a turning point for our customers around the world. Rockwell is simplifying and transforming the difficult yet critical function of material handling throughout the manufacturing plant with an end-to-end production logistics solution. Production logistics is key to optimizing operations across an entire facility and bringing the Connected Enterprise to life.” The acquisition includes Clearpath Robotics’ namesake research division that develops autonomous technology for the innovation market, and the industrial division OTTO Motors, which provides AMRs. Both divisions now report to Rockwell’s Intelligent Devices operating segment. OTTO Motors will be featured at Rockwell’s Automation Fair, an industrial automation and digital transformation event, from November 6 to 9 in Boston. Here customers will see firsthand the significant impact that AMRs will have on productivity and safety across operations. “Not only do AMRs connect islands of automation; they are often one of the final major elements that help manufacturers achieve autonomous production logistics, enabling significant value creation for the manufacturer and their customers,” said Amar Mehta, EY Americas strategy and transactions advanced manufacturing leader. “Rockwell is a leader in the key hardware, software, and services that are needed to integrate AMRs into a manufacturing plant. With this acquisition, Rockwell enhances its ability to take manufacturers on a full end-to-end digital transformation for their production environments.” 