Leuze Gets a New Location in the USA As part of its global growth strategy, Leuze in the USA is moving to new premises. Duluth in the northeast of Atlanta, Georgia, will in the future be the new Leuze location in the USA. "After careful consideration, we have decided to move our office to a new, more modern and more spacious US location," said Ibrahim Zuva, VP Operations and Technology Americas. This decision is consistent with Leuze's long-term strategic growth targets. "The new location also provides a more favorable environment for cooperation with our customers, distributors and partners," emphasizes Zuva. A further advantage: Sales, production and development will in future all be under one roof. Leuze will relocate the Sales, Operations and Development departments currently based in New Hudson, Michigan, by the end of 2023. "At the beginning of 2024, US production will also be moved to the new location. The formal opening of the new Leuze location is planned for March 2024," said Zuva. Leuze offers its customers in the USA an extensive range of high-tech products, which include a large number of different sensors for automation technology. For example, switching and measuring sensors, identification systems as well as solutions for data transmission and image processing, and everything needed for safety at work: safety components, safety services and safety solutions. The new on-site training center provides the company's employees, customers, and distributors with many possibilities for further training. "We greatly value the good relationship we have with our customers, distributors, and we are convinced that the relocation will further consolidate our cooperation," says Aaron Henry, President Leuze USA. "Local production brings us closer to our customers and will allow us to supply them with products faster and more efficiently," he emphasizes.

New address of the Leuze US location:
2150 Northmont Parkway
Suite N
Duluth, GA 30096 With curiosity and determination, the Sensor People from Leuze have been creating innovations and technological milestones in industrial automation for 60 years. They are driven by the success of their customers. Yesterday. Today. Tomorrow. The technology leader’s high-tech product range includes a number of different sensors for the field of automation technology. Among these are switching and measuring sensors, identification systems, and data transmission and image processing solutions. As a Safety Expert, Leuze is also focused on components, services and solutions for safety at work. Leuze concentrates on its core industries, in which the Sensor People have extensive, specific application know-how and many years of experience. These include intralogistics and the packaging industry, machine tools, the automotive industry as well as laboratory automation. 