ABB Launches Real Progress Campaign to Accelerate Global Sustainability Technology and expertise from ABB are proving to customers that sustainability and productivity go hand in hand. ABB has today launched its new global sustainability initiative, showcasing the power of technology and expertise to accelerate sustainability while enhancing productivity. ABB’s Real Progress campaign is a rallying call to customers, partners and suppliers, inspiring them to harness technology leadership and the solutions that exist today to amplify their own impact across process industries such as mining, metals, and pulp and paper.

For more than 130 years, the technology leader has been embedded in industries where emissions are hard to abate and where alternative solutions are either unavailable or difficult to practically implement. Today, ABB is combatting many changes happening in the world, such as rising emissions, water and energy scarcity, and workforce skills challenges. The company is showing that the power of bold ideas and pioneering technologies can overcome these challenges, step by step, together with the wider industrial and societal ecosystem.

The decarbonization challenge unites the mining, pulp, paper and metals industries with leadership teams striving to meet increasing market demand with a more rapid increase in energy and resource efficiency to reach their committed sustainability targets such as more carbon-neutral operations. Across these vital process industries, there is a growing recognition that automation, electrification and digitalization are essential components of their journey towards meeting climate targets set out by businesses, legislation, governments and international agreements over the next 25 years and beyond.

“The journey toward sustainability isn't a gradual progression; it's a bold transformation. The actions and decisions we take today, together with every innovation we embrace, are powerful steps towards a sustainable future, and we're unapologetically leading the charge,” said Joachim Braun, division president, ABB Process Industries. “Every day, ABB is working side by side with customers in their mines, their mills and their plants, to provide complete technology solutions with automation, electrification and digitalization to radically reduce emissions and energy use. Together with our great network of partners, we are proud of driving real progress in sustainability, but we know that more can and must be done. We’re part of the journey and commit to making real progress always.”

In the mining industry, Real Progress means helping customers through their energy transition, with electrification combined with world-class technologies for hoisting and grinding. The ABB eMine solution is one example, empowering them to convert fossil fuel reliant mines to all-electric. By automating all electrification solutions, customers can now monitor, control, and then reduce their energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions in real time.

ABB is also supporting customers in the transformation of the pulp and paper industry, helping to reduce waste and accelerate towards circularity. Solutions include the ABB Quality Control System (QCS), deployed to provide paper makers with visibility into the sheet as it is formed to reduce waste and improve runnability. Automation combined with advanced process control (APC) can support consistent operations, improved production, energy savings and reduced costs. Meanwhile, modern drives and motors ensure reliable operations, energy efficiency and process performance.

In the metals industries, ABB is committed to enabling customers to use less energy and raw materials when producing steel and aluminum through advanced automation and electrification systems, combined with industry-specific equipment and digitalization, across plants. While the digital solution ABB Ability™ Smart Melt Shop helps bring autonomous plants to life by connecting and automating crane and ladle movement to reduce thermal losses, ABB ArcSave® electromagnetic stirrer (EMS) makes electric arc furnace (EAF) operations more productive and resource efficient. For the entire metals enterprise, ABB Ability™ Energy Management System monitors and optimizes energy consumption, supporting manufacturers to meet their sustainability goals.

“Sustainability isn't an option; it’s an imperative for every business leader in our rapidly evolving world. To thrive and create a better future, we must embrace sustainability at the core of our operations,” said Rohit Sharma, Global HSE and Sustainability Manager, ABB Process Industries. “It’s not only about being responsible but also about staying competitive and resilient in an ever-changing global landscape. Our commitment to sustainability today will define our success and impact generations to come.” ABB’s Process Automation business automates, electrifies and digitalizes industrial operations that address a wide range of essential needs–from supplying energy, water and materials, to producing goods and transporting them to market. With its ~20,000 employees, leading technology and service expertise, ABB Process Automation helps customers in process, hybrid and maritime industries improve performance and safety of operations, enabling a more sustainable and resource-efficient future. ABB is a technology leader in electrification and automation, enabling a more sustainable and resource-efficient future. The company’s solutions connect engineering know-how and software to optimize how things are manufactured, moved, powered and operated. Building on more than 140 years of excellence, ABB’s ~105,000 employees are committed to driving innovations that accelerate industrial transformation. 