At SPS 2023, Rockwell Automation and Its PartnerNetwork  Ecosystem Show How Collaboration Fuels Digital Transformation Partners will bring best-in-class solutions for holistic approach to optimizing production. Nov. 15, 2023 - Düsseldorf, Germany - Rockwell Automation Inc., the world's largest company dedicated to industrial automation and digital transformation, is showcasing its extensive PartnerNetworkTM ecosystem at SPS 2023. This powerful network complements Rockwell Automation’s technology offerings and domain expertise and provides customers with an integrated system of engineering specialists and suppliers that are leaders in the automation and manufacturing industry. 

At Rockwell Automation’s SPS booth, visitors can gain detailed insights into its PartnerNetwork ecosystem, to learn about the company’s successful joint projects and the important results customers have achieved.
Thirteen different partners are co-exhibiting with Rockwell Automation, presenting a diverse range of products and offerings, including cybersecurity, robotics and motion, wireless communication, design, and digital engineering: “Our PartnerNetwork program members are prominent companies that have profound experience in delivering products or services that are designed to work with our solutions," said Christian Reuter, regional vice president, market access, EMEA, Rockwell Automation. "The collaboration amongst members brings together best-in-class solutions, helping to streamline customer supply chains and simplify project implementation, providing the best value for automation investments. We are very pleased that at this year’s SPS, Rockwell Automation’s booth is located close to many of our partners, allowing us to showcase our joint expertise and projects."

The Rockwell Automation stand at SPS 2023 is located in Hall 3C, Booth 320. In addition to the PartnerNetwork ecosystem, the company is presenting its extensive portfolio of state-of-the-art hardware and software solutions. Learn more about the Rockwell Automation PartnerNetwork program here. Rockwell Automation, Inc., is a global leader in industrial automation and digital transformation. We connect the imaginations of people with the potential of technology to expand what is humanly possible, making the world more productive and more sustainable. Headquartered in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, Rockwell Automation employs approximately 29,000 problem solvers dedicated to our customers in more than 100 countries. 