Exertus Celebrates 20 Years of Engineering Excellence Exertus Oy, a Finnish high-tech company specializing in mobile machine control systems, is proud to celebrate its 20th anniversary of providing top-quality solutions and customer satisfaction. Exertus Oy, a Finnish high-tech company specializing in mobile machine control systems, is proud to celebrate its 20th anniversary of providing top-quality solutions and customer satisfaction. Since its founding in 2003, Exertus has grown from a small startup to a respected player in the market. Today, the company, which has grown to the size of almost 50 experts, serves its customers all over the world.

Exertus offers a wide range of hardware and software solutions, as well as comprehensive services including, design, development, and manufacturing of mobile control systems. Through its base of standard platforms, which can be easily customized to meet customer needs, Exertus achieves speed and flexibility in projects and solutions, ensuring top performance. The control units, based on the Linux platform, are especially suitable for advanced controls, with the capability to integrate displays and accompanying graphics.

The company has achieved remarkable milestones throughout its journey in customized electronics, application solutions, manufacturing, and product development. Their commitment to quality and innovation is reflected in its system development environments Guitu and Canto, virtual environment Vento, and remote management system Redi. Exertus has cooperated with the international contract manufacturer GPV Electronics for several years. The company operates as a manufacturer of Exertus products and has more than 60 years of experience as an industrial electronics manufacturer.

“We are grateful to everyone who has contributed to this milestone. Thank you to all our customers, employees, partners and the communities that have supported us," said Pirkka Tukeva, CEO of Exertus Oy. "With your continued support, we remain committed to excellence and are proud of our sustainability efforts, testing and manufacturing all our products in Finland. As we look forward, we are enthusiastic about further years of growth, innovation, and success. We expect continued stable growth, and our next goal is a geographical expansion to strengthen Exertus' position as a leading innovative company by consistently offering groundbreaking products and solutions to the market." 

“Exertus' success is built on significant innovative skills, strong customer focus, high flexibility, and extensive application experience. The commitment and expertise of all employees are the foundation for delivering outstanding results and driving innovation forward. We look forward to the company's continued strong development,” says Lars Åleby, VP Electronics, Dacke Industri. Exertus offer the whole package, with agility and flexibility, high-quality solutions in designing, manufacturing, and consulting of machine control software and systems. The range of offerings is extensive, including turnkey solutions or just the parts to complete customer products. Exertus is headquartered in Seinäjoki, Finland, and they employ about 50 people with a net sales of about EUR 10 million. 