Why Hyperautomation Is Becoming Essential in Cybersecurity Hyperautomation in cybersecurity may quickly become the new industry standard. Professionals should consider whether staggered or collective automation is the right choice for their department. Hyperautomation in cybersecurity may quickly become the new industry standard. Professionals should consider whether staggered or collective automation is the right choice for their department. Hyperautomation is a business strategy involving the rapid integration and deployment of automation tools. In practice, it revolves around identifying, developing and utilizing technology like robotic process automation (RPA) and artificial intelligence. Since hyperautomation involves a collection of autonomous and robotic technology, it offers all of the benefits of standard automation and more.

1. Address the skills shortage
The cybersecurity skill shortage grew to 4 million openings in 2023, a 10% increase from 2022. Although fragmented automation could relieve some security professionals’ workloads, a labor scarcity as significant as this one requires hyperautomation.
 
Considering artificial intelligence alone will add $6.28 trillion worth of productivity gains to the global gross domestic product, a combination of automation technology would have a substantial positive impact.

2. Improve scalability 
Since this strategy is about gap identification and technology integration, it offers unmatched scalability. After all, the entire concept revolves around progress acceleration. Chief information security officers (CISOs) who implement it will only need to scale things like digital storage and software instead of sourcing more labor and resources.

3. Minimize human error
Major security events unintentionally caused by overwhelmed professionals are becoming increasingly common. In fact, human error is responsible for 95% of all cybersecurity incidents on average. Fortunately, hyperautomation provides people with comprehensive relief from intense workloads, meaning they’ll be less likely to make careless mistakes.

4. Promote operational visibility 
In most cases, hyperautomation tools provide CISOs with an authentic, comprehensive digital record of every process and potential threat. It gives them accurate insight so they can react accordingly instead of working on assumptions.

Of course, this strategy necessitates data unification—meaning all information will be automatically processed and categorized in a single place. As a result, management effectiveness and operational visibility will increase substantially.

5.Enhance accuracy 
Hyperautomation technology is far more precise than people ever will be. For example, a deep learning algorithm has a 99.99% success rate when classifying cyber attacks and identifying network intrusions. Naturally, these tools also make human work more accurate.

6. Offer data aggregation 
One of the primary use cases for hyperautomation in cybersecurity is data creation and aggregation. Instead of receiving only part of the story from a handful of IoT devices, CISOs can review a meticulous, comprehensive record of every process. Of course, it can help them identify and fix security gaps.

7. Provide security improvements 
Naturally, having automatic, autonomous technology working around the clock is far more secure than keeping human professionals on call at odd hours. No matter when unusual network patterns appear or how high alert volumes get, these tools will be ready.
 
Further, 55% of cybersecurity professionals feel they’re unable to prioritize and respond to alerts effectively. At the very least, hyperautomation can take over every repetitive task so they can identify and address genuine security threats. Already, nearly 35% of organizations have extensively or fully automated their security processes. At this point, autonomous technology has become all but necessary to remain secure in the digital world.
 
Hyperautomation is essential for incident response, data aggregation and threat detection. This fact becomes especially true after factoring in how automation impacts the ever-evolving threat landscape. Considering cybercriminals use tools like AI and RPA to considerably increase their attack size and capabilities, CISOs need to deploy this strategy to build an adequate defense. While CISOs may be tempted to view hyperautomation as a luxury since it requires a considerable initial investment, it’s more of a priority. After all, the discrepancies between legacy and modern systems during a traditional integration process will create numerous security gaps and new vulnerabilities.
 
If cybersecurity professionals want to automate, they should do it all simultaneously. The learning curve for each new technology will create costly downtime. One transition period ensures the team can seamlessly adapt instead of repeatedly adjusting to a new normal with every new tool. To put it simply, hyperautomation isn’t overhyped. It has extensive use cases in cybersecurity, provides unparalleled benefits and helps professionals stay one step ahead of ever-evolving digital threats.
 
Unlike standard automation, it minimizes security gaps between modern and legacy systems. Further, it directly addresses the upskilling required to adapt to a wide variety of new technology. If CISOs want to get serious about cybersecurity, hyperautomation is the way to do it. 