Portescap Attains AS9100 Certification, Demonstrating Commitment to Aerospace Manufacturing Excellence Portescap, a global provider of miniature motion solutions, is excited to announce that its facility in Mumbai, India has attained AS9100 certification. Portescap, a global provider of miniature motion solutions, is excited to announce that its facility in Mumbai, India has attained AS9100 certification. Internationally recognized as the defining standard for Quality Management Systems (QMS) in the aerospace industry, AS9100 outlines a set of rigorous requirements that aerospace suppliers must meet to ensure the quality and safety of their products and services.

Miniature motors and motor accessories are critical to the success of a wide range of aerospace applications, including automated window shades, seat actuation and cockpit flight controls. By manufacturing motion solutions utilizing the controlled processes and procedures that comply with AS9100 QMS, Portescap is able to deliver products of the highest quality and that adhere to the latest industry standards.

“Portescap places significant emphasis on quality, reliability and safety, as well as a strong commitment to exceeding customer needs,“ said Julian Del Campo, business development manager for Aerospace and Defense. “Our AS9100 certification is not only a requirement of our role as a supplier to our customers but highlights our commitment to delivering quality motion solutions for aerospace applications. This certification also increases our customers’ confidence that we will continue to meet the rigorous QMS standards specific to the aerospace sector.” Portescap offers the broadest miniature and specialty motor products in the industry, encompassing coreless brush DC, brushless DC, stepper can stack, gearheads, digital linear actuators and disc magnet technologies. Portescap products have been serving diverse motion control needs in wide spectrum of medical and industrial applications, lifescience, instrumentation, automation, aerospace and commercial applications, for more than 70 years.

Portescap has manufacturing centers in the United States and India and utilizes a global product development network with research and development centers in the United States, China, India and Switzerland. 