MaRS and Innovate UK unveil third cohort for advanced manufacturing startups MaRS Discovery District has partnered again with Innovate UK’s Global Incubator Programme to launch the third cohort for advanced manufacturing startups. Seven promising companies from the UK will participate in the program at MaRS’ innovation hub in Toronto to scale in North America and find new partnerships and customers from around the world. “We are thrilled to welcome our third advanced manufacturing cohort to Canada, thanks to the valuable support of our partners at Innovate UK,” said Morgan Lorimer, senior program manager at MaRS. “We are continually impressed by the high calibre of companies interested in participating in these programs and we eagerly look forward to seeing how this upcoming cohort will contribute to enriching the Canadian ecosystem.” Innovate UK, the UK’s innovation agency, is creating a blueprint for future programs with MaRS and collaborations among accelerators, incubators and private ventures. The third cohort of the Innovate UK Advanced Manufacturing Incubator Program for 2023 has startups spanning industries from aerospace to sustainability. The members of this advanced manufacturing cohort are: NK Scaled Technology specializes in innovative materials, while Additive Manufacturing Solutions pioneers sustainable manufacturing feedstocks. Invisu leads in Industry 4.0 with its digital twin tech. Scintam Engineering excels in electrical discharge machining, and Carbogenics focuses on sustainable carbon materials. Inventor-e redefines inventory management with IoT vending solutions, and Loop Technology transforms high-value manufacturing. The five-month program includes targeted workshops, advisory support and networking opportunities to help the participants sharpen their value propositions and pitches. By integrating the UK ventures into the MaRS ecosystem, the cohort will get a comprehensive understanding of the shape and needs of North America’s advanced manufacturing community. “I am excited to continue to develop our partnership with MaRS as we work together to support the best of UK innovation in Advanced Manufacturing to grow and scale in North America with the launch of this third cohort as part of the Innovate UK Global Incubator Programme,” said Jon Hazell, partnership manager for North America and global incubator at Innovate UK. 