Modern Enterprise Asset Management Systems Help End Users Meet Business Objectives ARC Advisory Group’s new research on the Enterprise Asset Management (EAM) reveals that EAM systems have become a primary enabler of digital transformation for asset management among industrial companies. Nov. 15, 2023 - ARC Advisory Group’s new research on the Enterprise Asset Management (EAM) reveals that EAM systems have become a primary enabler of digital transformation for asset management among industrial companies. EAM systems are becoming key for end users in achieving their business goals. Modern enterprise asset management combines traditional maintenance management strategies with new digital technologies for transformation advances in reliability, maintenance execution, and business performance.
 
"The enterprise asset management market is experiencing strong growth for several reasons, most notably because of the business benefits available with modern EAM and APM capabilities. This translates into expanded capabilities for improved uptime, asset longevity, and cost control with reduced unplanned downtime. Modern EAM systems support APM across the asset management functions including reliability, inspections, maintenance, and engineering, and into operations. Synergies across these functions enables new forms of digital transformation with improved operational performance," according to Inderpreet Shoker, Director of Research and key author of ARC's Enterprise Asset Management Market Research. In addition to providing detailed competitive market share data, the research also addresses key market trends as follows: In addition to providing specific market data and industry trends, this ARC market research also identifies and positions the leading suppliers to this market and provides and summarizes their relevant offerings. An alphabetical list of key suppliers covered in this analysis includes: Hexagon, Hitachi Energy, IBM, IFS, SAP. The Enterprise Asset Management research explores the current and future market performance and related technology and business trends and identifies leading technology suppliers. This new research is based on ARC’s industry-leading market research database, extensive primary and secondary research, and proprietary economic modelling techniques. The research includes competitive analysis, five-year market forecasts, and five years of historical analysis. The research segmentation includes Overall Scope, World Region, Industry, Sales Channel, Customer Tier, Revenue Category, Software Revenues by Type, Service Revenues by Type, Application and Asset Type.
 
This new research is available in a variety of formats to meet the specific research and budgetary requirements of a wide variety of organizations. These include: For more information on this and other available ARC market research, please visit our Market Analysis Services. ARC Advisory Group is the leading market research and advisory firm for industry, infrastructure, and cities. ARC analysts have the industry knowledge and firsthand experience to help clients find the best answers. 