Endress+Hauser Breaks Ground on $50.9 Million Investment at US Headquarters in Indiana New Greenwood, Indiana, facility will also serve as the new headquarters for long-time representative partner, George E. Booth Co. Nov. 7, 2023 – Endress+Hauser and its sales and service partner, George E. Booth Co., broke ground Monday, Nov. 6, on an approximately 106,000 square-foot commercial office and light industry facility in Greenwood, Indiana. The facility will house Endress+Hauser’s projects and solutions, human resources and legal departments as well as a Design and Innovation Studio for early education and workforce development.

“We are thrilled to expand our roots and footprint in Greenwood, the community we’ve been a part of for almost 50 years,” said Todd Lucey, general manager, Endress+Hauser USA. “Our continued investments showcase our commitment to Johnson County, our dedicated employees and our valued customers. The City of Greenwood has been a wonderful partner and collaborator over the years, and we take pride in investing in areas and locations where our team members live, work and play.” 

The building will house 190 employees over the next decade. Of those positions, 95 will be new to Johnson County, including 50 immediate jobs from the relocation of George E. Booth Co. Endress+Hauser plans to add 75 additional jobs over the next 10 years and George E. Booth Co. plans to add 20 jobs in that same timeframe.  

“We are excited to partner with our principal, Endress+Hauser, to bring both teams under one roof on their Greenwood campus,” said Scott Young, president, George E. Booth Co. “Being strategically located in Greenwood will bring us closer to our partners which will drive growth and collaboration to implement improved solutions for our customers. We could not be more thrilled to call the City of Greenwood our new home.”  

As part of the Design and Innovation Studio, approximately 2,500 square-feet will be dedicated to STEM, allowing K-8 educators to visit the company’s campus for field trips and extracurricular enrichment. In addition, the Design and Innovation Studio will house a smart classroom and maker space. In cooperation with Purdue Indiana Next Generation Manufacturing Competitiveness Center (IN-MaC), students will be equipped with Industry 4.0 technology and other cutting-edge innovations. High school students also will have the opportunity to use the studio’s 3D printing, robotics, Spheros, Little Bits, engineering and science modules and coding tools. 

The project will boast many sustainable elements including geothermal heating and cooling, a solar panel-covered roof, rain gardens and permeable pavers. These investments in green infrastructure showcase Endress+Hauser’s commitment to reducing its carbon footprint, aligning with its integral brand value of sustainability.  

“Endress+Hauser has been a longstanding partner and contributor to the Greenwood community,” said Greenwood Mayor Mark W. Myers. “This expansion will bring significant investment to the city and cement Greenwood as the center for U.S. strategic initiatives and continued growth for the family-owned company.”

The architectural design for the project is by Browning Day, with landscape architecture and civil design led by Rundell Ernstberger Associates. The project will be constructed by Meyer Najem.  Additional members of the design team include V3 Companies (civil engineering), Applied Engineering Services (electrical and mechanical engineering) and Fink Roberts & Petrie (structural engineering). Endress+Hauser is a global leader in measurement and automation technology for process and laboratory applications. The family company, headquartered in Reinach, Switzerland, achieved net sales of more than $3.6 billion (3.3 billion euros) in 2022 with a total workforce of nearly 16,000. Endress+Hauser devices, solutions and services are at home in many industries. Customers thus use them to gain valuable knowledge from their applications. This enables them to improve their products, work economically and at the same time protect people and the environment. 