Sustainability Goals Boost Demand for Industrial Energy Management Software Sustainability remains the primary impetus for growth. Nov. 14, 2023 - Recent ARC Advisory Group research on the market for industrial energy management software reveals that sustainability remains the primary impetus for growth. Most major manufacturers are in the midst of a major sustainability initiative right now. Energy efficiency is usually a core aspect of any sustainability. A significant amount of energy is lost in today’s industrial processes, and the opportunities for savings and increased efficiency are numerous. Many industrial processes will see a 20-30 percent reduction in energy consumption through the implementation of energy efficiency initiatives, and energy management software is the primary enabler.
 
"The energy management software market looks a bit dynamic and is constantly changing with new innovations. Accurate and reliable energy data, software modules, and advanced data analytics are transforming the face of business and redefining entire industrial processes at the plant and device level for achieving goals on energy savings and energy optimization, cost reductions, sustainability, carbon footprint, and productivity improvement," according to Naresh Surepelly, Senior Analyst and key author of ARC's Industrial Energy Management Software Market Research. In addition to providing detailed competitive market share data, the research also addresses key market trends as follows: In addition to providing specific market data and industry trends, this ARC market research also identifies and positions the leading suppliers to this market and provides and summarizes their relevant offerings. An alphabetical list of key suppliers covered in this analysis includes: ABB, AVEVA, Honeywell, Schneider Electric, Siemens. The Industrial Energy Management Software research explores the current and future market performance and related technology and business trends and identifies leading technology suppliers. This new research is based on ARC’s industry-leading market research database, extensive primary and secondary research, and proprietary economic modelling techniques. The research includes competitive analysis, plus five-year market forecasts. The research segmentation includes Overall Scope, World Region, Industry, Sales Channel, Revenue Category, Software Revenues by Type, Service Revenues by Type.
 
This new research is available in a variety of formats to meet the specific research and budgetary requirements of a wide variety of organizations. These include: For more information on this and other available ARC market research, please visit our Market Analysis Services. ARC Advisory Group is the leading market research and advisory firm for industry, infrastructure, and cities.  ARC analysts have the industry knowledge and firsthand experience to help clients find the best answers. 