Siemens and ServiceNow Enable Cloud-based Management of OT Assets The partnership between Siemens and ServiceNow enables transparency in industrial asset management. The technology company Siemens and ServiceNow, a leading company specializing in digital workflows, will work more closely together in the future. Siemens’ cloud-based software service makes all OT devices on the shop floor completely transparent and connects them with the market-proven NowPlatform from ServiceNow.

The partnership between Siemens and ServiceNow enables transparency in industrial asset management. This Software-as-a-Service solution from Siemens enables the recognition, identification, and management of all OT devices to simplify and automate their processes. It makes the status of all OT devices across the network completely transparent, regardless of manufacturer or device type, using just one tool. This functionality extends the NowPlatform, which already provides management of IT assets. With this expansion, Siemens and ServiceNow are addressing the need of their shared customers to increase transparency across the entire shop floor.

As a result, incidents that could disrupt the production process in industrial plants can be prevented. The tool also allows for planning service tasks, identifying potential security vulnerabilities, and dispatching service personnel without additional manual or time costs. OT assets can now be managed with the same flexibility and interoperability as IT assets.

“OT management is 10 years behind IT management. ServiceNow has already mastered IT asset management – and this partnership means opening our ecosystem and leaving behind the silos. By combining the IT expertise of ServiceNow with our OT knowledge, we’re truly putting IT and OT convergence into practice and enabling speed and scale for our shared customers," said Dirk Didascalou, CTO Digital Industries. “The digital transformation of manufacturing processes is happening at a rapid pace. We are witnessing the fusion of the physical and digital worlds, and IT and OT convergence is an underlying enabler. That digital transformation brings new opportunities for new business models and can help increase productivity significantly. Siemens and ServiceNow are committed to helping customers realize these benefits," said Karel van der Poel, senior vice president Products at ServiceNow.

With this partnership, Siemens and ServiceNow are strengthening an industrial ecosystem to accelerate the digital transformation of industrial customers. The scalable, open, and secure cloud service extends the Siemens Xcelerator digital business platform and Industrial Operations X interoperable portfolio. This continuously growing portfolio covers the areas of production engineering, execution, and optimization. With Industrial Operations X, Siemens is consistently integrating IT and software capabilities in the world of automation to make production processes more flexible, autonomous, and better tailored to people’s needs. Siemens AG (Berlin and Munich) is a technology company focused on industry, infrastructure, transport, and healthcare. From more resource-efficient factories, resilient supply chains, and smarter buildings and grids, to cleaner and more comfortable transportation as well as advanced healthcare, the company creates technology with purpose adding real value for customers. By combining the real and the digital worlds, Siemens empowers its customers to transform their industries and markets, helping them to transform the everyday for billions of people. Siemens also owns a majority stake in the publicly listed company Siemens Healthineers, a globally leading medical technology provider shaping the future of healthcare. In addition, Siemens holds a minority stake in Siemens Energy, a global leader in the transmission and generation of electrical power. 