Module Type Packages (MTP) Market Poised for Strong Performance as Acceptance Grows ARC’s Automation for Module Type Packages Emerging Market Analysis research identifies the key components of MTP solutions, discusses growth drivers and inhibitors, and provides market sizes and five-year forecasts for major segments. Nov. 7, 2023 - Module Type Packages (MTP) is an emerging market in the process industries that originated in Western Europe. It is quickly becoming popular around the world. ARC’s new Automation for Module Type Packages Emerging Market Analysis research identifies the key components of MTP solutions, discusses growth drivers and inhibitors, and provides market sizes and five-year forecasts for major segments. Module type package is the name of the industry standard for modular architectures in process equipment. MTP itself is not an architecture, but rather a standardized way of describing processes, as well as capabilities and functionality of automation modules, from discrete components up to production skids. The key to MTP is the associated MTP file that accompanies each device and the orchestration software that integrates devices into an existing control architecture, usually based around a DCS.
 
"Automation and equipment suppliers see MTP as a key emerging market in the process industries. While MTP will drive the demand for certain components and field instruments, the most important issue facing suppliers is to learn how to sell products as part of MTP solutions. This includes supplying MTP files that describe device functionalities and capabilities, and understanding how the assemblies delivered by equipment providers are orchestrated into the grand scheme of a flexible process plant. Modular architectures have clear benefits, but lacking standards have held back the concept ever since ARC first postulated a world of intelligent, modular architectures over 20 years ago. Owing to the leadership of NAMUR, an association of process industry end users, the market got its act together and created an open, accessible standard that will likely have a profound effect on process architectures for the next generation," according to David Humphrey, Research Director and key author of ARC's Automation for Module Type Packages Emerging Market Analysis Research. In addition to providing detailed competitive market share data, the research also addresses key market trends as follows: The Automation for Module Type Packages (MTP) is an emerging market analysis which explores current and future market performance and related technology and business trends. The report includes a comprehensive list of suppliers active in the market along with a select number of supplier profiles. This new research is based on ARC’s industry-leading market research database, extensive primary and secondary research, and proprietary economic modelling techniques. The research includes five-year market forecasts. The segmentation includes Revenue Category, Sales Channel, World Region, Industry, Customer Type, Hardware Revenues by Type, Overall Scope, Module Type, Engineering Type.
 
This new research is available in a variety of formats to meet the specific research and budgetary requirements of a wide variety of organizations. These include: For more information on this and other available ARC market research, please visit our Market Analysis Services. ARC Advisory Group is the leading market research and advisory firm for industry, infrastructure, and cities.  ARC analysts have the industry knowledge and firsthand experience to help clients find the best answers. 