ARC Research Shows Growth for Collaborative Robots in the Factory Space Cobots, which are designed to work with human operators, improve throughput, quality, efficiency and accuracy while eliminating the cost and complexity of safety safeguards in the factory space. Nov. 8, 2023 - Dedham, Mass. - ARC Advisory Group’s new research on Collaborative Robots, otherwise known as Cobots, provides insights on the cobots market in the post pandemic era. The market for cobots will continue to experience double digit growth over the next five years. Cobots are one of the latest technologies that revolutionize the automation industry. Unlike their industrial robot counterparts, cobots are designed to operate in proximity with human operators while addressing productivity challenges such as throughput, quality, efficiency and accuracy. The elimination of the installation of safety safeguards in the factory space is a key advantage for using a cobot solution, as manufacturing flexibility, smaller factory footprint and quicker redeployment can be achieved to adapt to the market and supply chain uncertainties.
 
"The Industrial Revolution has influenced the way robotics can evolve. From a mechanized equipment designed solely for productivity and efficiency, Industrial IoT and the digital transformation revolution gave rise to more intelligent robots with a higher integration of sensors and computer vision technology. Better and different types of sensors also allow the enhancement of safety features, increasing the feasibility of a human-robot coworking relationship, which has proven to be reliable in addressing the recent global challenges. New enabling technologies such as AI and digital twins can influence the way in which humans interact with cobots in the future," according to Fox Chen, market analyst and key author of ARC's Collaborative Robots Market Research. In addition to providing detailed competitive market share data, the research also addresses key market trends as follows: In addition to providing specific market data and industry trends, this ARC market research also identifies and positions the leading suppliers to this market and provides and summarizes their relevant offerings. An alphabetical list of key suppliers covered in this analysis includes: AUBO Robotics, FANUC, JAKA Robotics, Techman Robot, Teradyne (Universal Robots). The Collaborative Robots research explores the current and future market performance and related technology and business trends and identifies leading technology suppliers. This new research is based on ARC’s industry-leading market research database, extensive primary and secondary research and proprietary economic modelling techniques. The research includes competitive analysis, five-year market forecasts and five years of historical analysis. The segmentation includes Revenue Category, Sales Channel, World Region, Industry, Customer Type, Application, Payload, Arm Type, Overall Scope.
 
This new research is available in a variety of formats to meet the specific research and budgetary requirements of a wide variety of organizations. These include: For more information on this and other available ARC market research, please visit our Market Analysis Services. ARC Advisory Group is the leading market research and advisory firm for industry, infrastructure and cities. ARC analysts have the industry knowledge and firsthand experience to help clients find the best answers. 