AW-Lake Announces Organizational Changes and Welcomes New Controller AW-Lake, flow instrumentation manufacturer, has hired Michah Feinberg, CPA, as controller as Tammie Steiner moves into sustainability role at TASI Test and Automation. Nov. 8, 2023‒ AW-Lake, flow instrumentation manufacturer, has hired Michah Feinberg, CPA, as controller as Tammie Steiner moves into sustainability role at TASI Test and Automation. Feinberg holds a CPA and various professional certifications and has more than 20 years of experience in accounting and finance, with demonstrated skills in financial modeling, cost reduction, change management, and ERP implementation.  He previously held Controller positions for several industrial manufacturers where he streamlined and automated various AP, AR and closing activities and upgraded legacy ERP/accounting systems.

At AW-Lake, Feinberg will oversee the forecasting, strategizing, and budgeting of company financial programs as well as support EXACT Dispensing Systems with financial planning and goals. He is responsible for both Accounting Departments, including payroll, accounts payable, tax, audit, budget, general ledger, consolidated financial reporting, cash management and staffing functions.

“Micah has the background and experience to direct our financial and accounting activities as we continue to grow into new markets with greater product offerings,” stated Mark Iverson, general manager, to whom Micah reports. “We also congratulate Tammie in her move to TASI where her skills will be valued in taking the organization to greater levels of sustainability.”

Tammie Steiner, former Controller for AW-Lake, has accepted a new position as Director of Sustainability for TASI Test and Automation. Steiner will develop, implement, and oversee sustainability strategies and initiatives within the company. This role is critical in addressing environmental, social and economic concerns and further integrating sustainability into the companies’ core business operations. AW-Lake, a TASI Group company, was founded in 1984 as a manufacturer of flow meters and flow monitoring equipment, servicing industrial paint and hydraulics applications. After a strong start in the Automotive sector, AW-Lake diversified into many other industrial markets, including Oil & Gas, Pharmaceuticals, Medical Equipment, Power Generation, General Manufacturing, and Industrial Processing. With a strong focus on providing flow solutions to the industrial sector to reduce carbon footprint and preserve natural environments, AW-Lake produces one of the most comprehensive portfolios of flow measurement technologies in the US. 