Increased Focus on Energy Security Fuels Global Control Valves Growth ARC Advisory Group’s new research on the Control Valves market highlights how the economic disruption caused by the war in Ukraine has amplified the urgency to accelerate energy transition initiatives. Nov. 3, 2023 - ARC Advisory Group’s new research on the Control Valves market highlights how the economic disruption caused by the war in Ukraine has amplified the urgency to accelerate energy transition initiatives. Governments around the world are increasingly striving to become less dependent on unreliable foreign suppliers of energy. This increased focus on energy security is driving heightened investment activity in nuclear, LNG, fossil power, and regional oil and gas projects. In the above industries, control valves are used to maintain a process variable as close as possible to the desired set point. Controller set points are typically flow rate, pressure, and temperature. Product parameters, such as density, concentration, liquid level, and others, can also be controlled with control valves.
 
"Gas shortages faced in Europe because of gas supply cutoffs from Russia highlighted the dangers of relying on (unreliable) foreign energy sources because Europe’s gas supply had historically been dominated by Russia," according to David Clayton, research director and key author of ARC's Control Valves Market Research. "This has led to government interventions aimed at protecting consumers and shielding industry from spiraling energy costs and shortfalls. Many countries and regions are creating policies to fast-track clean energy transition initiatives. The Inflation Reduction Act in the US, the REPowerEU plan in Europe, and the Green Transformation (better known as GX) program in Japan are just a few examples of policymakers providing incentives to encourage investments in clean energy initiatives." In addition to providing detailed competitive market share data, the research also addresses key market trends as follows: In addition to providing specific market data and industry trends, this ARC market research also identifies and positions the leading suppliers to this market and provides and summarizes their relevant offerings. An alphabetical list of key suppliers covered in this analysis includes: Emerson Automation Solutions, Flowserve, Nihon Koso, SAMSON, Third Party Control Valve Suppliers. The Control Valves research explores the current and future market performance and related technology and business trends and identifies leading technology suppliers. This new research is based on ARC’s industry-leading market research database, extensive primary and secondary research, and proprietary economic modelling techniques. The research includes competitive analysis, five-year market forecasts, and five years of historical analysis. The report segmentation includes Overall Scope, World Region, Industry, Sales Channel, Customer Type, Component, Revenue Category, Project Type, Application, Actuators by Type, Positioners by Type, Positioners by Communication Protocol.
 
This new research is available in a variety of formats to meet the specific research and budgetary requirements of a wide variety of organizations. These include: For more information on this and other available ARC market research, please visit our Market Analysis Services. ARC Advisory Group is the leading market research and advisory firm for industry, infrastructure, and cities.  ARC analysts have the industry knowledge and firsthand experience to help clients find the best answers. 