Rockwell Automation Celebrates 32nd Automation Fair The event showcases best-in-class solutions that power resiliency, agility and sustainability. Nov. 6, 2023 - Rockwell Automation, Inc., the world’s largest company dedicated to industrial automation and digital transformation, opens its annual event, Automation Fair, in Boston with members of its global PartnerNetwork. The event brings together more than 10,000 participants from around the world to Discover What's Possible with the hottest innovations, the smartest experts and the latest strategies. 

Automation Fair is a one-of-a-kind annual event, held this year at the Boston Convention and Exhibition Center, Nov. 6-9. It offers an immersive experience showcasing the value and power of Rockwell’s expertise and solutions. For the first time ever, Rockwell is combining Automation Fair, its flagship event, with the best of Rockwell’s popular ROKLive Americas, PowerPlex and Process Solutions User Group events into one groundbreaking week. 

“It’s very exciting to bring Automation Fair to my hometown of Boston, a city that is near and dear to my heart,” said Robin Saitz, chief marketing officer, Rockwell Automation. “We’ve reimagined this year’s event to be even bigger, better and more valuable for attendees. This includes more of everything–more keynotes, tours, networking opportunities and much more learning. I’m looking forward to bringing our customers, partners, distributors and Rockwell employees together from all over the world to experience this year’s event.” The event schedule features 3 inspirational keynotes open to all attendees focused on innovations in industrial technology, the future of manufacturing and inspiring resiliency and sustainability. Keynote speakers include: More than 325 sessions will be delivered by experts from Rockwell, its partners and its customers to help attendees move their manufacturing journey forward. With learning opportunities at discovery theatres, peer-to-peer knowledge-sharing sessions and panel discussions, attendees can tailor their experience with guided tracks by industry, role and interest area. For the first time ever, the show floor has expanded to a 500,000-square-foot interactive expo that will feature more than 120 booths, virtual production lines and guided expo tours. Attendees will access the hottest innovations and the latest approaches to optimize production, empower workers, build resiliency, drive sustainability and achieve digital transformation. New half-day summits bring together like-minded individuals to problem solve, build community and share successes. There are four summits for attendees to choose from: Process Solutions User Group (PSUG) Summit, Environmental, Social & Governance (ESG) Net Zero Now Summit, Plex Customer Summit and OEM Leader to Leader Summit. All summits offer exclusive access to keynote speakers and subject matter experts, roundtable collaboration and topical breakouts. Attendees are invited to witness cutting-edge technology showcasing Rockwell and partner solutions in real-world applications during the first two days of Automation Fair, Nov. 6 and 7. Offsite tours include: Event attendees can go deeper by spending time with domain experts and get personalized guidance with new three-hour labs. This hands-on experience with hardware and software simulations allows for richer conversations to talk about specific scenarios and use cases. There are also 500 hours of advanced training available, providing the opportunity to earn more than 20 professional development hour credits while attending the fair.

For more information about Automation Fair 2023 in Boston, click here. The Rockwell Automation PartnerNetwork program offers global manufacturers access to a collaborative network of companies mutually focused on developing, implementing and supporting best-in-class solutions to achieve plant-wide optimization, improve machine performance and meet sustainability objectives. Rockwell Automation, Inc., is a global leader in industrial automation and digital transformation. We connect the imaginations of people with the potential of technology to expand what is humanly possible, making the world more productive and more sustainable. Headquartered in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, Rockwell Automation employs approximately 29,000 problem solvers dedicated to our customers in more than 100 countries. 