HARTING Celebrates Production Launch in Vietnam HARTING has now set up a new production site in Vietnam. Nov. 3, 2023 - To date, the family-owned company has opened 44 national subsidiaries and 14 production plants around the world. Now, another location is being added: with immediate effect, connectors and pre-assembled solutions will also be manufactured to the accustomed HARTING quality standards in Hai Duong, Vietnam.
 
HARTING has now set up a new production site in Vietnam. China's neighbour is a strategically important location in Asia for the Technology Group. As from now, a well-trained core team will have connector production up and running on the over 2,500 square metre factory premises.
 
"It is important to us that we also ensure our high-quality standards here in Vietnam," as Andreas Conrad, member of the board of the HARTING Technology Group, stated. "With our globally standardised processes and production facilities, we are guaranteeing our customers the HARTING quality they are accustomed to - around the globe. Whether in Germany, Romania, Mexico or now also in Vietnam - our customers can rely on HARTING being at hand worldwide."
 
Philip Harting, the CEO of the Technology Group, was on location in person to open the new production plant. "With our newly acquired site in Vietnam, we are creating an important building block in the growth region of Southeast Asia. Here in Hai Duong, we are close to our customers and producing directly on site. We are reducing the delivery routes to a minimum and will record significant CO2 savings in this way. Together with the management team, we have already set the course for further expansion." The HARTING Technology Group is one of the world’s leading suppliers of industrial connection technology. Spread around the entire globe, HARTING has some 6,500 employees working at 44 sales and distribution companies, 15 production plants and six R&D locations. HARTING connectivity solutions are deployed in numerous branches of industry for the transmission of “data, signals and power”. Areas of application include transportation, electro-mobility, renewable energy generation, automation and mechanical and plant engineering. As a family-owned company, HARTING generated a turnover of EUR 1,059 million in 2021/22. 