Siemens and Elvia Increase Grid Capacity in Parts of Norway by 2030 with SaaS Solution The partnership will enable future-proof distribution grid management in Norway, one step further on the journey towards autonomous grids. Siemens’ software has been deployed to Norwegian distribution system operator (DSO) Elvia, with the goal to future-proof its distribution grid management. Siemens’ low voltage software, LV Insights X and advanced distribution management system, Spectrum PowerTM 7 ADMS, are now operational and will provide Elvia with relevant insights to flexibly manage its grid and increase capacity fast. With LV Insights X, Elvia is able to leverage existing data and create a digital twin to monitor the status of the grid, resulting in optimized outage management. This leads to cost-savings, improved grid stability and ultimately, customer satisfaction. 

“At Siemens Grid Software, we are committed to accelerating the energy transition," said Sabine Erlinghagen, CEO Siemens Grid Software. "Our low voltage software, LV Insights X, empowers grid operators to gain full transparency over their grid and increase capacity by identifying critical segments. Having now been deployed at Elvia, the software will enable the company to tackle its most pressing challenges, gain valuable insights to make fast decisions and increase customer satisfaction. By partnering with Elvia, as well as other DSOs across Europe during the development phase of LV Insights X, we were able to ensure our software meets the industry’s demand for next generation grid management."

“We needed an innovative approach to develop a future-proof next-generation grid management solution in Norway. Working with Siemens, we deployed an advanced and future-proof product within weeks that will help us to accelerate and handle the energy transition. With increased flexibility and oversight over our grid, we can now manage our low-voltage system in a much more efficient manner–from planning to operations and maintenance,” said Erik Jansen, head of Grid Operations of Elvia. 

Co-innovation was crucial to the rollout of both products at Elvia. During the process, Elvia alongside additional European DSOs, tested prototypes of the software to develop user-centric solutions that are easy and intuitive to use. This agile approach led to the development of a product that supports modern and robust grid control architecture. 

The new SaaS product, LV Insights X, is part of the Siemens Xcelerator portfolio–an open digital business platform that enables customers to accelerate their digital transformation easier, faster and at scale. It provides the foundations for flexible, adaptable and scalable low-voltage grid management and helps reduce outage times by up to 30%. Elvia is able to leverage the full benefits of the Siemens Xcelerator portfolio using LV insights X as it seamlessly integrates into its existing system landscape, including Spectrum PowerTM 7 ADMS. 