High Growth for the Microgrid Automation Systems Market New ARC research shows significant growth in the market for Microgrid Automation Systems. Nov. 2, 2023 - New ARC research shows significant growth in the market for Microgrid Automation Systems. While the electric grid is decarbonizing fast, the microgrid architecture is gaining popularity. The main driver for microgrids continues to be improved resilience and reliability. Electric power is increasingly essential for businesses and residents and the costs of outages have increased, as industry, commercial and especially residential electric customers have seen large increases of financial losses due to power failures over the past five years. Local solar power and grid scale batteries can be integrated with existing fossil-powered backup generators to easily form a microgrid. Suppliers make control and protection systems that can improve reliability and optimize operation.
 
"The reason microgrids are growing fast is economics," according to Rick Rys, director of Consulting and key author ARC's Microgrid Automation Systems Market Research. "Over the past five years, the cost of power in the US increased by about 26%. Since 2017, the critical components cost of microgrids has dropped. For example, the average cost of a US commercial PV system has fallen by about 60 percent and the average cost of a US grid-scale battery has fallen by about 75%. At the same time, the average cost of a power failure to both commercial and residential customers has nearly doubled since 2017, while weather related power failures have increased significantly. The ability to provide local power cheaper than grid power and avoid the cost of power failures is a major economic factor driving microgrids. While the US leads microgrid growth, followed by Europe and Asia, both Latin America and African countries are finding microgrids to be a popular way to bring power to poorly served areas." In addition to providing detailed competitive market share data, the research also addresses key market trends as follows: In addition to providing specific market data and industry trends, this ARC market research also identifies and positions the leading suppliers to this market and provides and summarizes their relevant offerings. An alphabetical list of key suppliers covered in this analysis includes: General Electric, Hitachi Energy, NARI, Schneider Electric, Siemens. The Microgrid Automation Systems research explores the current and future market performance and related technology and business trends and identifies leading technology suppliers. This new research is based on ARC’s industry-leading market research database, extensive primary and secondary research, and proprietary economic modelling techniques. The research includes competitive analysis, plus five-year market forecasts. The report segmentation includes Revenue Category, Sales Channel, World Region, Hardware by Type, Facility Type, Project Size, Software by Type, Services by Type, Overall Scope, Grid Size, Microgrid Power Source.
 
This new research is available in a variety of formats to meet the specific research and budgetary requirements of a wide variety of organizations. These include: For more information on this and other available ARC market research, please visit our Market Analysis Services. ARC Advisory Group is the leading market research and advisory firm for industry, infrastructure, and cities.  ARC analysts have the industry knowledge and firsthand experience to help clients find the best answers.  ARC Advisory Group, +1 781-471-1000, 