Beijer Adds to BFI Frequency Inverter Family With High-Power VFDs Beijer Electronics has recently added 200 kW and 250 kW power inverter models to the existing BFI-P2 and BFI-H3 product lines for large pump, fan, and motor applications. Motor control is, and always has been, one of the most fundamental concepts in all of electrical automation. From tiny button cell motors to massive motors with thousands of HP, there must be solutions available to precisely move any kind of rotating load device.  Beijer Electronics offers an extensive line of power inverters for motor control, sometimes called AC drives or variable frequency drives (VFDs). A frequency inverter takes in supply voltage, typically at the 50/60 Hz of the local supply, and manipulates the frequency using advanced electronics, specialty software, and user inputs, then outputs the new current frequency to the motor leads. A VFD is a great way to control the speed of 3-phase induction and synchronous motors. As the frequency of the current supplied to the motor winding changes, so does the speed of the motor output shaft. Recently, Beijer has expanded the BFI product family by adding a 200 kW and a 250 kW inverter to the BFI-P2 and BFI-H3 product families.    Some industries require large motors, which can draw a lot of power during startup. A motor starting quickly at full load is the worst-case scenario power draw from the power source. This is similar to stomping on the gas pedal in your car from a standstill. A power inverter such as the BFI-P2 allows automatic control over large motors by more gently increasing the frequency of the supply voltage to the motor, thus changing the speed in a predictable ‘ramp’ curve. The BFI-P2 was specifically designed for applications such as stone crushers, extruders, and vessel propulsion, where large motors run at constant speed with lots of torque. The applications typically require IP55 protection, 50 °C operating temperatures, 150% overload protection, and a SIL2 rating. The BFI-P2 is available in sizes up to 250 kW (about 335 HP) and has an integrated brake resistor switchover and a built-in EMC filter. For control, the BFI-P2 has three digital inputs and two analog/digital configurable inputs. Outputs consist of two relays and two analog/digital converters. For safety, there are two inputs available that will activate the safe torque off (STO) function of the drive. As for communication, Modbus RTU is the default with options to add Modbus TCP, Ethernet/IP, EtherCAT, or PROFINET, while other protocols are available as options as well.    The food and beverage or water treatment plants are big users of power inverters for speed control of pumps and mixing machines. Having precise control over pump speeds or mixing speeds can mean the difference between selling a batch of cookie dough or scraping it off the walls. The HVAC industry has similar requirements as the previously mentioned industries. While typical HVAC applications revolve (no pun intended) around fan speed control, large fans will greatly benefit from precise control for reduced energy consumption. The BFI-H3 offers similar functions to the BFI-P2 with power ranges up to 250 kW, IP55 protection, and a similar input and output count. The communication interface options are also similar, with Modbus TCP, Ethernet/IP, EtherCAT, and PROFINET all being extendable options. The H3 is specifically intended for use with pumps, fans, and mixers, so there are features such as pump dry protection, stir function, or the broken impeller function that will help integrate the H3 into your application easier and faster. Additional features include multiple pump controls and a dust-tight and wash-down-ready enclosure. 