Turck Expands IO-link Solutions For Enhanced Industrial Connectivity Turck has recently released two new cutting-edge IO-Link solutions: the FIL20 hub for merging single I/O with IO-Link and new configurable IP69K modules for flexible system expansion. As connected devices continue to gain traction across a wide range of industries, Turck, a company known to provide industrial solutions in a variety of industries, has recently added to its family of IO-Link devices. The announcements include new FIL20 I/O hubs, which are single input/output (SIO) hubs, and two new flexible class A IO-Link modules, the TBEN-L4-8IOLA and TBEN-LL-8IOLA. These two advanced series of IO-Link products from Turck show the company's commitment to providing innovative solutions in industrial connectivity.  Available in two models, the TBEN-L4-8IOLA and TBEN-LL-8IOLA, both models boast eight IO-Link master channels in their class A IO-Link modules. However, the two variants differ regarding configurable channels, in which the L4 version has eight configurable PNP I/O channels. In contrast, its counterpart, the LL, boasts 16 universal digital PNP channels, which makes the configuration a bit more flexible. Equipped with an integrated Ethernet switch, the new blocks support 10/100 Mbps transmissions and can work with Ethernet/IP devices, Modbus TCP, or PROFINET devices. Equipped with programmable AGREE technology, both blocks also have IO-Link protocol 1.1 and module electronics that are fully potted for environmental resilience.    When it comes to design, the new IO-Link modules have a reinforced glass fiber housing that is shock and vibration-proof with ratings of IP69K, IP65, and IP67, making them durable in a range of industrial environments. Equipped with an M12, 5-pin, L-coded male connector for power supply, the LL also has galvanically isolated voltage groups. In contrast, the L4 is equipped with a 4-pin 7/8″ male connector for the voltage supply. The two new blocks from Turck also allow an increased power supply on pin 2 of up to 2 amps for actuators and loads that demand a little more power than sensors.  FIL20 I/O Hub is another IO-Link product offered by Turck and is available in five models: 8DXP-E, 16DXP, 8DXP-DIN, and 8DXP with availability in both FIL small (which has 8 points) and FIL large (with 16 points) variants. These new hubs are flexible as they integrate easily with existing IO-link master systems, reducing the cabling requirements and making them suitable for machine builders and integrators. To eliminate the need for individual blocks that may otherwise require additional IP addresses, the new FIL20 I/O hub reduces the overall network traffic.    The IP20-rated hub has a rugged design, with some variants offering a DIN rail mounting option for simplified installation, with further support of maintenance being made possible with I&M data sets. The new hubs are also equipped with IO-Link diagnostics to verify supply voltage and short-circuit protection.  As IO-Link technology advances, engineers seek solutions that best fit their industrial communication needs in terms of functionality and durability. With Turk’s new IO-Link products featuring a modular design, easy integration with existing IO-Link systems, and ease of configuration, these innovative solutions offer adaptability and flexibility in their functionality and features. The features and the durable design are suited for a wide range of applications in intralogistics, pharmaceuticals, system integration, and machine building industries. 