KEB Automation Releases DL4 Servo Motors For Equipment Manufacturers KEB Automation has launched the DL4, an 8-pole AC servo motor in three frame sizes with torque ratings from 11 to 520 Nm and power ratings up to 77 kW for the largest models. KEB Automation, known worldwide for its servo drives, motion control, and control systems, has recently released the DL4 series of brushless AC servo motors. This series of motors promises high torque and accurate precision in a compact housing.  Servo motors are typically used in precise rotational axes, like robot arms, and are also commonly combined with a linear actuator. This axis converts rotary motion into linear motion. The ability to accurately command a motor to move to a specific position with speed, acceleration, and deceleration offers designers a larger flexibility over traditional pneumatic actuators.    The DL4 series comes in three different frame sizes: the SE, SF, and SG, which are all UL-certified and operate at a nominal 400 volts. The motor design includes a dynamic 8-pole system and is rated to 300% of rated torque values. The servo model series offers a nominal torque range of up to 342 Nm (for the SG model), with a higher peak torque and rated speeds of up to 3,000 RPM and a peak speed of 6,000 RPM. Options for the DL4 series include IP65 protection, liquid or forced air cooling, and the optional addition of encoders, resolvers, and brakes.    A servo motor will require a drive system to provide the correct power to the motor, and KEB offers the Combivert series of servo drives as this control solution. The Combivert offers models for single or multi-axis configurations and supports popular industrial protocols such as EtherCAT, Ethernet/IP, and PROFINET.    With servo motors and drives being so advanced, users will require software to commission the equipment in the field. The commission software allows users to tune the system while under load from the tooling and applications. KEB servo drives utilize the Combivis 6 Studio software, which has programming functions as well as I/O capability. The software supports all standard IEC 61131-3 programming languages and offers simulation tools to help reduce development time.    A servo motor system can be a great solution to a problem that requires quick, accurate positioning. A common servo application is a pick-and-place station, this is where a part is picked from a nesting location and placed at another. While this can sometimes be done with pneumatics, a servo-driven system provides a faster and smoother transition from the pick to the place location. Servo applications do not always need to be fast; test equipment will often employ a servo motor because of the accurate positioning, not the speed. Servo drive systems use advanced algorithms, PID loops, and encoders to ensure the actuator settles at the intended location. While linear motion is often the preferred motion of a servo application, there are situations where precise torque or RPMs are required. Pressing applications are a great use for servo motors because the drive system can accurately control the torque output to the motor. Provided the servo motor is configured correctly and the software is capable, the system will be able to press down to a specified torque value and hold that value. These applications are just some of the use cases in which a servo motor like the DL4 could be employed for future success. 