Merry Christmas From Control.com! Our Most Popular Articles of 2023 Thanks to you once again, our community of engineers around the world, we achieved incredible success in passing along stories and technical knowledge, with these articles leading the list… 2023 was a great year for Control Automation! The launch of a whole new textbook about robotics, our second Control Automation Day virtual event, and a whole set of brand-new videos in the works from recent trade shows and tech innovations. But that’s not all… We also continued to publish news about the most exciting developments in automation technology and share solutions and tutorials to address problems in engineering, from basic knowledge to complex theories.    Here are the Top 10 articles from 2023, both the news and the technical articles. You may have read them already, and if you missed them, you can join the thousands of others who learned something new!  News: Phoenix Contact’s New Thermomark E-Series Printers Simplify Wiring Technical: How To Use Analog Inputs With 2, 3, and 4 Wires News: Siemens and Microsoft Leverage Generative AI to Elevate Industrial Operations Technical: Ladder Logic for the Arduino Opta PLC: Creating Your First Program News: ProMat 2023: Pickle Robots and Ron Howard Technical: Introduction to Modbus and Modbus Function Codes News: 8-Port IO-Link Master Designed for Compact and Powerful Edge Processing Technical: Control Wiring for Variable Frequency Drives (VFDs) News: New Mitsubishi Electric VFD Inverter Can be Powered by a 120V Source Technical: Understanding Power Factor Correction in Single Phase and Three Phase News: The Technology Battle: Smaller PLCs vs Larger PLCs Technical: Comparing Voltage: When to Ground a Floating Power Supply News: Rockwell Automation’s Investment Brings Industrial OS to Logix Controllers Technical: Siemens TIA Portal and S7-1200 Tutorial 2: Analog Inputs News: Siemens Releases a New Virtual PLC, the S7-1500V Technical: Introduction to Single Pair Ethernet (SPE) News: WAGO Debuts New Protocols for Its CC-100 PLC Technical: Sense HAT: The Coolest HAT for the Raspberry Pi  And now, our number one most-viewed articles for the year 2023: News: Newly Released: Exclusive Control.com Robotics Textbook Technical: Arduino PLC IDE Tutorial 2: Analog I/O and External Devices  To put all of this in context, these articles alone saw almost 64 thousand visitors this year, and some of them were only published within the past few months!  We cannot wait to launch into 2024 with all-new video series in the works, some new textbook ideas, a digital conference all about robotics (I promise, you are going to love the grand prize giveaway), and as always, a wide array of exciting technical topics and discussions among the site and forum channels. If you haven’t already, please join our community, lending your questions and your answers in the forum and stay tuned for more awesome Control Automation content in 2024! 