ABB Announces Real Progress Campaign to Accelerate Global Industry ABB has recently launched a campaign known as the "Real Progress" initiative aimed at fastening global sustainability through technology and expertise in process industries. ABB, a technology leader in automation and electrification, has recently unveiled its global initiative called the Real Progress campaign, designed to showcase the symbiotic relationship between productivity and sustainability. The company’s initiative is not just an invitation to customers, suppliers, and partners to join the movement, it also aims to demonstrate how expertise and technology can be tapped to enhance productivity and sustainability in industries like metal, pulp paper, and mining. For over 130 years, ABB has worked closely with industries to provide them with alternative solutions, including this new campaign, designed to address challenges in reducing emissions along with the current global changes where energy and water become limited in many areas, adding to the challenges in workforce skills.  Focusing on challenging sectors like electrification, digitization, and automation in industries, the Real Progress campaign by ABB is not a gradual process but a transformative journey. According to Joachim Braun, ABB’s Process Industries Division President, the current decisions and actions taken and embracing innovative solutions are powerful steps towards a sustainable future. He also added that they are leading the charge unapologetically, explaining the inclusion of partners in an initiative that extends far beyond an increased product catalog.    Aiming to cover diverse industries, ABB has embedded sustainable practices in every process in its innovative solutions. Through electrification, ABB’s Real Progress campaign translates to helping customers transition to energy sources that are cleaner. For instance, the company’s eMine solution reduces energy consumption and real-time greenhouse gas emissions in mining, allowing mines to pursue a future all-electric goal. In the pulp and paper industry, ABB is committed to sustainability and transformation with innovative solutions such as the quality control system to reduce waste by providing visibility into the sheets during production, ensuring fewer losses and improving OEE over the entire process. ABB’s advanced process control and automation enhance operation, save energy, reduce cost, and improve production.    For the metal industries, the company’s implementation of advanced automation and electrification systems shows its commitment to allowing customers to use fewer resources, both energy and raw materials, to produce aluminum and steel. Combined with digitization and industry-specific equipment in plants, these solutions enhance production in the metalworking industry. To reduce thermal losses, the ABB Ability Smart Melt Shop digital solution can connect and automate ladle movements and cranes. Specifically enhancing productivity and resource efficiency in electric arc furnaces, the company’s innovative solution, the ABB ArcSave electromagnetic stirrer, simplifies the process. The ABB Ability Energy Management System also offers the whole metal industry sustainability by monitoring and optimizing their energy consumption.    According to ABB Process Industries Global HSE and Sustainability Manager Rohit Sharma, sustainability is essential for every business leader in this evolving world and not an option. It should be embraced at the core of operations for a better future as it shows responsibility and stays resilient and competitive in the dynamic global landscape. As industries are racing to go green and reduce their carbon footprints, embracing innovative solutions from ABB and joining in their campaign can prove worthwhile to implement sustainable practices. With over 20,000 employees, service expertise, and leading technology, the company’s solutions, like their ABB Process Automation, benefit diverse industries with electrification and digitization for sustainable outputs and accelerated industrial transformation. 