Schmalz Introduces New Compact Multi-Stage Vacuum Generator Schmalz has launched a new multi-stage compact ejector for efficient vacuum gripping solutions, with vacuum compensation available for non-uniform grip surfaces. Vacuum ejectors are a type of vacuum pump that is able to create vacuum suction through the application of the “Venturi effect.” Essentially, compressed air is forced through a restriction in a line, resulting in the creation of a lower-than-ambient pressure, or a vacuum, enabling use in many different applications. The manufacturing industry uses these types of vacuum ejectors for vacuum gripping solutions and pneumatic handling equipment. Schmalz has recently released their latest lineup of multi-stage compact ejectors for the manufacturing industry.  Schmalz has recently released the latest series of multi-stage compact ejectors, dubbed the SCPLb / SCPLc. The ejectors are designed to be an “all-rounder” meaning they can find use in many different applications with flexible installation possibilities. The SCPL series has high suction power, enabling its use with numerous equipment options for different workpieces, and has the ability for modular expansion if needed.    The ejectors create flexible integration possibilities because they can be used on either porous or nonporous work surfaces. The high suction capacity can be used to move porous materials that require a larger amount of air movement than those with a tighter seal. In cases where smoother surfaces are used, such as glass or sheet metal, the ejectors have the option to use the optional air-saving regulation that helps to save on the amount of compressed air used. Compressed air is energy-intensive, so it can be a source of significant cost savings when manufacturers are able to reduce the amount of compressed air consumed in their processes. Since Venturi vacuum creation normally uses a lot of compressed air, air-saving regulation can help to reduce production costs on existing infrastructure in addition to new equipment installation. The multistage nozzles used in the SCPLb / SCPLc compact ejectors can be used to help reduce compressed air consumption in some plant processes.  The SCPL lineup of ejectors has different features to help with energy savings and better vacuum production. The devices are able to help with energy savings in applications that involve large vacuum systems with partial occupancy of the vacuum gripping surface. In these cases, the ejectors are able to compensate for areas with low vacuum to create a uniform vacuum gripping area. This means that they can even be used on surfaces with different porosity, and compensate by sending more vacuum to high-porosity areas while reducing flow to low-porosity areas for an equal grip force across the surface of the workpiece. An M12 connector is integrated into each device, allowing for centralized control. Integrating both the valve control and the vacuum monitoring switch (in the SCPLc) in one connector gives users a unique way to ensure better vacuum gripping possibilities. The ejectors can be purchased with a suction range of 290l/min to 1,140l/min giving users a wide range of suction options. Two different models are available, the basic model SCPLb, or the SCPLc, which is the monitored version. The SCPLc comes with an electrical connection to control the integrated valve and features a small LED display for greater functionality. Both models are available with IP54 rating using a durable plastic housing. The maximum vacuum achievable is 60 or 90 percent, depending on the model. 