WERMA Adds White Housing to eSIGN Signal Towers for Greater Customization WERMA has added a white housing option to its established eSIGN LED signal towers. The new addition intends to open up even greater flexibility and customization in industrial signaling. Manufacturer of modern signal technology WERMA has expanded its eSIGN light signal tower lineup. The towers are now available in white housing to fit a broader range of machine color schemes and customization options.    The eSIGN LED signal tower from WERMA has already made a presence in the manufacturing sector. The eSIGN signal towers offer a range of special features and benefits to users looking to expand or enhance their signaling equipment capabilities. The robust industrial design offers users full-surface signaling capabilities for various lighting options. The towers come in two sizes, one with 15 segments and another with nine segments. The segments are freely triggered to be changed individually or grouped to make different lighting patterns. The towers can communicate with the control system via standard M12 connectors to facilitate ease of installation. They are powered with a 24 VDC connection and can be configured with a USB cable. There is also a version of the light towers that includes IO-Link technology. Mounting of the towers is achieved through one of three different mounting options: base mounting, wall mounting, or tube mounting.   Many manufacturers use audible noise in conjunction with visible light signals to convey certain information about equipment operational status. The eSIGN LED signals come with a variety of tones, 10 total, to give users different signaling options. The tones can be individually set to signal whenever certain parameters change within the system. Configuration is not difficult, and sirens can simultaneously alarm with certain light signals to suit differing needs. Four modes are available for common manufacturing scenarios: signal tower, autoscale, filling level, and individual. Filling level mode can be used when a visual representation of consumable levels is needed. Signal tower mode gives users classic signal tower capabilities, while autoscale mode displays different colors according to a scale of importance where differing colors symbolize certain scenarios. Individual mode lets users light any light segments individually for a customizable color code.  With the option of white housing, WERMA’s eSIGN LED signal towers offer users even greater flexibility and customization. It is Fraunhofer IPA approved for cleanroom applications with Air Cleanliness Class 2. In addition, the towers come with enhanced resistance to typical production contaminants and have IP66/IP69k ratings to suit different manufacturing environments. 