Monitor Current and Machine Health With Sensing Coils From Banner Banner Engineering has introduced a flexible, easy-open loop current monitoring sensor for constant monitoring of electrical currents up to 6000 Amps. Many industrial process sensors are targeted at the product itself to determine location, quality, properties, and accuracy of the process. However, monitoring the actual production equipment can also be critical to help reduce downtime and ensure a longer useful life. Measurements of electrical draw can be the most convenient method for determining how well a machine is performing.  Electrical current is most often expressed as a function of resistance. When an electrical device starts drawing more current than it typically does, that might point to degrading components, indicating that the device may be nearing the end of its life unless action is taken. Collecting data on the current draw from equipment can also help electrical audits determine which equipment is the biggest current draw in the facility. Recently, Banner Engineering has introduced a product that can help with these monitoring applications.    When you want to know the current draw of a component while it is in operation, you need to connect your sensor into the current path, which can be quite dangerous as you must disconnect the wire terminals. The new Rogowski coil current sensor from Banner provides a simpler easy-open flexible loop, with a side push button operation, allowing it to be attached to any wire without ever removing conductors or exposing any potentially dangerous metal contacts. These coil sensors, named after the German physicist Walter Rogowski, measure AC current passing to and from high-power loads like motors. Abnormal increases or decreases in current over a period of time can be useful in tracking and predicting where a problem might occur next. The S15S series Rogowski comes in two coil diameter sizes, 50 mm and 200 mm, and can measure current as high as 6000 amps. The 50 mm size has two models with current ratings of 500 and 1000 amps, while the 200 mm version has 3000 and 6000 amp models. The sensor output uses Modbus RTU over RS-485, so the output is already pre-scaled and pre-configured to save time when developing a monitoring system in your PLC. Just like most of Banner’s sensors, the Rogowski is integrated into Banner’s Snap Signal platform, allowing for quick access to monitoring tools or converters. The supply uses the standard 4-pin M12, 10 to 30 VDC connection for power and communication. The Rogowski can operate in temperatures of -30 to 70 °C and has an IP65, P67, and IP68 protection rating.    When motors are operating over a long period of time, especially in harsh environments, the components inside will start to degrade. This degradation will result in a higher current draw and, eventually, a failure of the motor itself as the coils begin to lose resistance when the thin coating separating the wire strands wears down. Alignment of pump motors is also critical to ensure the pump and the motor function at the highest efficiency. If the alignment shifts, the motor will draw more current to accommodate the increased friction. This increase of current indicates increased wear on the internal components of the motor. Both scenarios show how the current draw can change over time and how it can be used to predict issues occurring with equipment. If the proper sensors are installed at the beginning of the equipment lifecycle the collected data can be trended and a prediction of when the motor might need servicing or replacement.  With electrical efficiency and green energy being a hot topic with large factories, electrical audits are becoming very popular. Monitoring the current draw of equipment at the power supply source, using sensors like the new S15S from Banner, can help identify equipment that might not be running very efficiently. Once the effecting equipment has been identified further investigation can be performed to determine what might be causing high current draws within the equipment. 