Banner Releases Flexible, Industrial-Grade RGB Strip Light Banner Engineering has recently released a new flexible multicolored strip light with industrial protocols that can be installed on curved or slim surfaces to provide greater visibility. Banner Engineering, globally known for providing industrial solutions including sensors, communication tools, and status indicator lights, has recently announced its latest addition to its lineup of products, the WLF12 Pro, a flexible strip light designed for industrial environments. Equipped with a wide range of features, the new strip light is set to enhance communication and visibility for industrial setups with traditionally poor viewing access.    To effectively communicate the status of a machine, the new WLF12 Pro industrial strip light from Banner comes equipped with multicolor capabilities with a wide range of 19 different color options and 15 advanced animation options that ensure that the visual indication is clear and comprehensive. This can be implemented in industries to enhance safety while improving status efficiency and visual factory communication. Another notable feature of the WLF12 Pro is its compatibility with the LC25 LED Controller, which makes the strip light operation easy as it allows control using standard industrial methods like IO-Link and discrete I/O without needing code configuration. This and the plug-in-play M12 connections simplify the installation process, reducing any need for intricate soldering. The multicolor strip light offers two different mounting options: translucent mounting straps or pick-and-peal, high-strength adhesive backing. The form factor of these light strips is quite familiar to general audiences as well, with many versions of RGB light strips being compatible with Raspberry Pi and Arduino devices. The industrial nature of the new WLF12 Pro means that it can be easily configured according to specific project requirements, while still maintaining compatibility with those microcontroller platforms. When it comes to further simplifying configuration, Banner has a free, user-friendly Pro Editor software that can configure the animations and colors. Without forgetting the durability aspect in design, the industrial strip light has a silicone-encapsulated housing that ensures long-lasting performance with available IP66, IP67, and IP69K ratings, which can withstand harsh industrial environments.  The WLF12 Pro, industrial strip light, is suitable for diverse industrial applications as it is adaptable and customizable in length and can be cut in 50 mm increments. The flexible strip is also available in five standard housings with 300 mm to 2000 mm lengths. The standard connectors and flexible control option seamlessly integrate the new strip light into various industrial environments. The new flexible multicolored strip lights can be used for integrated machine indication, indications in mobile equipment such as AMRs and AGVs, fill level and product position indication, tower style indication, and operator guidance indication in placing, picking, fulfilling, and assembling applications.    As lighting and indication technology races to meet the current industrial demands, innovative solutions are also emerging to cater to these needs. Banner’s low profile WLF12 Pro flexible multicolored strip light offers an indication solution that is flexible, easy to install and configure, and durable. The strip light’s diverse features enhance communication and efficiency in industries. 