Mennekes Announces New Range of Ganged Motor Disconnect Switches Mennekes has released a multi-gange 30 to 60-amp disconnect assembly, featuring a modular design for ease of engineering and a sloped top for protection in harsh washdown environments. By necessity and by regulation, all industrial motors require specific components to control the starting, stopping, and temporary disconnecting of power. These devices can be automated or manual in nature, but the emergency stop switch is ubiquitous for industrial motor applications. Mennekes offers a variety of motor disconnect switches, along with pushbutton enclosures and wiring devices. Recently, the global control company has added to the existing catalog of motor disconnects with a sloped-top version.    Motor disconnects are required for most AC motor installations. The amount of current that an AC motor draws is typically much higher than average AC component loads. For this reason, Mennekes offers a disconnect specifically designed for motors which comes pre-installed into a stainless steel housing. The SLPX is available in three multi-gang configurations, meaning three switches are installed into one housing. Each switch is designed to accommodate either 30 A or 60 A loads and comes standard with early break auxiliary contacts. The auxiliary contacts make VFD and motor starter integration even easier. The new SLPX series provides some added feature enhancements over previous models and is designed to be installed in washdown environments.  Washdown environments are typically found in food and beverage processing plants. The equipment needs to meet a specific NEMA rating so that water doesn’t penetrate the housing and cause an electrical short. The SLPX series has a sloped top with a drainage channel on the housing to ensure water or cleaning solutions do not pool and cause corrosion. The housing is constructed of 304 stainless steel. The slope spans the entire top section of the enclosure and is set at a 15-degree angle. The front panel is sealed via a one-piece punched gasket and drainage channels are integrated into the housing. Mounting the SLPX is facilitated with the included one-inch standoff mounting feet.    An important feature for any maintenance staff looking to create a spare parts inventory is the ability to order custom configurations. Because of the modular design of the SLPX, units can be configured to have push buttons, rotary switches, and even indicator lights.  Electrical disconnects are very important safety components, they are what allow maintenance staff to safely disconnect supply voltage to equipment and affix a lock to ensure they stay safe while working on the equipment. An AC motor can draw a lot of current, and the disconnect needs to be sized appropriately to break that current flow if needed. Washdown applications require special housing and components to ensure the safety of everyone. In a typical installation, the switch, contacts, panel, and even the mounting hardware often need to be purchased separately. This means many part numbers to keep track of when building a spare parts inventory. With the single-housing design of the SLPX, only one part number will need to be tracked and all the necessary parts come as one unit. 