Realtime Robotics and HLS Partner to Rapidly Optimize Manufacturing Realtime Robotics has partnered with HLS Engineering Group to enhance automation cell optimization, aiming to eliminate production bottlenecks and reduce cycle times within a matter of weeks. Following the release of its Optimization-as-a-Service (OaaS) solution, Realtime Robotics has announced a partnership with integrated engineering solutions mogul HLS Engineering Group. Realtime will combine its well-orchestrated robotic motion control expertise with HLS' engineering know-how to enhance the OaaS solution. Through virtual modeling, automated robot path generation, and evaluation, manufacturers can use the OaaS solution to implement robot path changes without disrupting existing processes.   Manufacturers strive to optimize robot work cells to boost efficiency, productivity, and overall operational effectiveness. Optimization involves refining automation cell layout, task sequencing, and robot programming to maximize output while minimizing resource usage. Optimization yields faster production cycles, reduced downtime, and improved utilization of robotic systems, leading to cost savings and consistent, high-quality output. It also enhances adaptability to changing production requirements, ensuring competitiveness in the dynamic manufacturing landscape where efficiency and flexibility are crucial. Traditionally, expert programmers with years of hard-earned experience take time to optimize processes. However, the inability to see reduced cycle time until after making programming changes is the Achilles' heel of traditional forms of optimization. This trial-and-error method can end up costing manufacturers valuable engineering and production hours.   Realtime’s OaaS solution employs proprietary algorithms to evaluate thousands of individual robot paths to determine which is best suited in any given work cell. Realtime customers need only provide a computer-aided design (CAD) file of their problem work cell. The OaaS solution assesses the customer's work cell digital twin and checks it against a 3D scan of the physical cell to ensure an accurate match. Realtime’s OaaS determines the most efficient motion steps depending on the application task, robot reach, and other variables. All that is needed is for Realtime to verify and validate the results of their optimization analysis. Once this is done, manufacturers can channel the program data into the work cell and update it in real time without stalling production.    HLS specializes in sustainable integrated engineering solutions, specifically on automobile and bodywork. The company also serves its customers across rail transport, aerospace industries, and those employing robotic automation systems, carbon fiber reinforced plastics, and assembly technologies. Realtime will leverage innovative scanning technology from HLS to collect data and create digital twins of customers' work cells. Both companies anticipate that Realtime's OaaS solution, when combined with HLS' expertise, will optimize a company's manufacturing processes in weeks rather than months. Already, Realtime's OaaS solution has been used by a top-tier automotive manufacturer as part of a proof-of-concept scheme for electric vehicle manufacturing. The OaaS solution reviewed and analyzed the customer's digital modeling CAD files and generated suitable recommendations, enhancing cycle time by 15% without impeding the production process. 