KEB Automation Releases New Motor with Built-In Frequency Inverter KEB Automation has introduced a new ‘2-in-1’ motor/inverter combo to alleviate cabinet space concerns and create an efficient, high-performance solution with easy installation. Electric motors are the backbone of most manufacturing processes. They literally do the heavy lifting, providing autonomous movement of products and processes throughout modern manufacturing. However, they do have some limitations when powered directly by line voltage, and variable frequency drives (or VFDs) provide AC motors with much more versatility in the manufacturing environment. Frequency inverters can be used to alter the speed of AC motors, providing smooth starting and stopping and the capability to ramp speed up or down.  KEB is a manufacturer of drive controllers, with many of them found in manufacturing plants throughout the world. They have recently expanded their portfolio to include motors with integrated frequency inverters built onto the motors themselves. This helps to alleviate control cabinet space concerns and gives users customizable AC motor control capabilities. The decentralization of motor drives can lead to a number of advantages for different applications. This new solution is intended to find use in many different industries, including logistics, textile, wood, and metal processing applications.  KEB Automation realizes the advantages of frequency inverters in conjunction with industrial gear motors and decided to go a step further with their latest portfolio expansion: geared asynchronous motors that include integrated frequency inverters. The result is a 2-in-1 solution that provides users with unique capabilities across a wide range of applications. The new motor/inverter combo works to decentralize the solution for manufacturers and end users.    The MU series of inverters are able to work in conjunction with KEB Automation’s geared motors, which include a power range anywhere from 0.37kW to 7.5kW to fit individualized applications. The solution helps to save time and money on labor and installation complexity by simplifying the installation process over traditional drive placement in control cabinets. It also further helps to reduce the complexity inside of control cabinets themselves. KEB offers this new frequency inverter solution according to a modular principle, where customers can pick and choose the motor, frequency inverter, and gearing combination according to each individual application. They have a drive configuration tool available to help customers choose the best drive for each application according to individual technical specifications.  The integrated frequency inverters contain some key features to help users find the ideal fit for their intended application. The frequency inverters can be integrated according to ten different sizes for mains voltages of 230 and 400 V. Operating points of 87, 100, or 120 Hz can be efficiently designed, ensuring that different customized drives can be flexibly used together. The 2-in-1 motors can be effectively used in control systems with a central location, ensuring that manufacturers receive valuable data on the status of their equipment. The control and monitoring functions are separate from drive tasks and offer more versatility for centralized control monitoring. A high IP rating means that the units can be used in most manufacturing environments without concern for the safety of the device, and they can be used in a temperature range of up to +40 °C.  After decades of attempting to consolidate and down-size control systems to fit within one control cabinet, modern technology is accelerating in the opposite direction; placing control systems adjacent to respective devices and machines. This increases the speed of the response and allows the devices to maintain some of their own control, easing the burden on the central controller. KEB Automation has responded to this trend by creating a distributed motor drive system with the new 2-in-1 motor drive combination, paving the way for future advancement in efficient, decentralized control systems. 