New IEP3 Encoder Uses the Latest in Chip Tech for Enhanced Accuracy FAULHABER recently released a new incremental encoder with an impressive resolution of up to 10,000 lines per revolution using the latest interpolative chip technology. FAULHABER, a global leader in motor, drive, and actuator technologies, has recently announced its new IEP3 incremental encoder with state-of-the-art chip technology for impressive accuracy and resolution. With a diameter of only 8 mm, the latest incremental has a compact design that makes it ideal for precision control in various industries.    Using the latest chipset technology, the new encoder offers an exceptional resolution of up to 10,000 lines per revolution. This chipset technology equips the incremental encoder with accuracy compensation, offering 0.3 °m (mechanical degrees) of positional accuracy and a high repeatability of 0.05 °m. Equipped with a different range of lines per revolution, the incremental encoder variants in the IEP3 also feature three channels and digital outputs. To offer reliability in use in battery-powered applications, the new FAULHABER’s incremental encoder has a flexible supply voltage of both 3.3 V and 5 V. Boasting a compact design, the IEP3 incremental encoder's small size makes it lightweight, and its wide range of temperature between -40 to +125 °C also makes the encoder versatile in its use in extreme environments.  Equipped with a 2-pole sensor magnet, IEP3 is an ON-axis encoder with a simple and robust design offering modular characteristics that represent it well in the IE3 encoder series. These characteristics make the IEP3 significant, as it provides a platform that is compatible with a wide range of DC motors of the 1024SR, 0816SR, and 1016SR series as well as the AM1020, AM1524, AM0820 series of stepper motors. For easy integration, the electrical connection in the FAULHABER’s incremental encoder has FEP or PVC cables that come in different lengths, configurations, and optional connectors.  When it comes to offering a flexible solution, FAULHABER’s incremental magnetic encoder has a standard version with a simple user-programmable resolution ranging from 1 to 4,096 lines per revolution, making it easy for users to configure the encoder to specific applications while ensuring precision without unnecessary data transmissions. This makes the solution versatile in its use in a wide range of industries like robotics, production, and semiconductors, and it also can potentially be used in the design of a variety of optical devices such as microscopes and cameras. As incremental encoder technology advances, more precise and flexible solutions are emerging to tackle some control challenges facing engineers in nearly every field that employs rotational motion. The latest chip technology in the FAULHABER IEP3 incremental encoder makes it an ideal choice for engineers looking for adaptable, versatile, accurate, and precise control in their applications. 