Perle Creates New IDS-710CT Managed Industrial Ethernet Switches Managed industrial Ethernet switches with fiber, like the new IDS-710CT from Perle, can be used to create reliable network connectivity in a small footprint, perfect for industrial applications. It’s easy to understand why computer network equipment can be a difficult topic for operational technology engineers. Modern demands for high-speed, high-volume data, coupled with an increasing need for security, result in constantly evolving standards and devices. Network switches serve as the primary junction point between field devices, creating a secure nervous system of reliable data transfer around the factory floor.  Perle, an industrial manufacturer of secure device networking hardware, has recently announced the launch of its latest Ethernet switch lineup. Dubbed the IDS-710CT, these managed Ethernet switches are capable of communicating using fiber or copper networks. Fiber networks are better suited for high-noise situations where communication through copper can experience interference.    Perle has ensured that the Ethernet switches can fit into almost any situation regardless of space constraints with its small chassis. In addition, the device can handle many different types of industrial environments, including those that are subject to high levels of temperature, surge, vibration, and shock. The fanless switches offer customers a rugged Ethernet switch for the configuration, monitoring, and management of industrial LANs.  The IDS-710CT switch contains a number of important features that ensure manufacturers get the most out of their networks. There are a total of ten ports on the IDS-710CT. The devices include eight 10/100/1000-Base-T Ethernet ports for networking with Gigabit and Fast Ethernet devices. The other ports can be used for long-distance Gigabit Ethernet, with two 1000Base-X fiber connectors capable of extending the network up to a distance of 100 miles. Users can eliminate problems with electrical interference through the use of fiber optic cables, immune to the effects of inductive equipment noise. Industrial environment can be notoriously detrimental to electrical components, but Perle has taken this into account in the design of the new managed Ethernet switch which comes with one of two ratings. The standard IDS-710CT can be used in a temperature range of -10 to 60 °C, while the IDS-710-XT has been designed for use in the operating temperature range of -40 to 70 °C. A dual power input also helps to ensure redundancy in addition to reverse polarity protection and overload current protection.    With plug-and-play connectivity, the switches can be connected with a minimal amount of effort, helping to save on installation and configuration costs. There are over 20 models to choose from to help customers achieve the appropriate fit for their specific needs. The Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP), offers zero-touch discovery for fast setup on initial installation, which can benefit ease of use for the onboarding process in Ethernet environments. A removable MicroSD card can be used for configuration files and firmware backups as well as restoration of files. The use of a command line interface (CLI) through in-band Telnet or the out-band serial console port is a familiar interface that CCNA, and CCNP-trained engineers should be comfortable with. This helps to reduce the learning curve when installing and using the Ethernet switches. Network security includes 802.1X, port security, Secure Shell (SSHv2), and SNMPv3, providing encrypted administrator traffic during CLI and SNMP sessions. Centralized control is ensured through the use of TACACS+ and RADIUS authentication; it also helps to restrict unauthorized users.  Industrial technology will always require the most advanced network devices, even in support of legacy equipment. The new managed Ethernet switches from Perle provide another opportunity to bring modern solutions to a wide variety of production shop floors. 