Balluff’s Latest Fork Sensors Are “Mini,” Featuring a 5 mm Slot Width Balluff has released the latest in its photoelectric family: mini fork sensors. The sensors are made to deliver the power and precision of Balluff fork sensors—only—in a miniature size. Balluff has taken steps to ensure customers have access to a robust, cost-effective solution for applications where space is a critical consideration. The company's latest offering, the BGL MiniSlot series of fork sensors, is designed with small spaces in mind. The new compact fork sensors have a slot width of a mere 5 mm.    Fork sensors are a type of through-beam sensor with "U" or "L" shaped arms. They have many sizes, finding their place in different manufacturing and automation applications. Mini fork sensors are useful in applications where space is at a premium. Balluff's new fork sensors follow the trend of miniaturization in manufacturing, helping to reduce necessary resources and save on valuable real estate for automated equipment.    Balluff's BGL MiniSlot miniaturized fork sensors are made to deliver the power and precision of Balluff's bigger fork sensors in a miniature size. The mini fork sensors have an easy setup common to other Balluff sensor lineups. The sensors’ alignment is finalized at the factory, and the sensors only need a single cable for communication with control devices. An IP64 rating ensures that the sensors can be used in tough manufacturing processes without the fear of dust ingress, liquid splashes, or differing vibration and shock levels. A 3 kHz switching frequency allows these fork sensors to be used in high-speed applications, and an LED provides a visualization of the switching status. Balluff’s mini fork sensors are available in six housing types, with mounting holes perpendicular or parallel to the sensing slot. Three different connection types can be used on any of the six sensor housings, including an M8 4-pin connector, flat 4-pin connector, and PVC cable.    Industries that stand to benefit from using a miniaturized fork sensor include battery, electronics, and semiconductor manufacturing. In battery manufacturing, for example, mini fork sensors can correctly position robotic and transport equipment to place anodes and cathodes on top of each other—a normally complicated process. Other potential applications of mini fork sensors include detecting thin objects, such as paper or sheet metal, determining positioning in linear transport and positioning systems, or sensing rotating objects' rotation direction and revolutions. 