OnLogic Announces Updates to IPC Line and a New Power Supply OnLogic has developed and released new products to help enhance industrial computing needs with a new 1000 W power supply and enhancements to the lineup of industrial PC technology. OnLogic, a global leader in the design and manufacture of rugged industrial computing solutions, has recently announced the release of the latest product lineup additions. These updates to the Karbon 800 industrial PC series come to the market alongside a new 1000 W power supply designed for demanding industrial computing applications.    The PS1000-1 is the company's first power supply designed specifically for use with OnLogic's high-performance industrial computers. OnLogic is looking to help customers create more flexibility when configuring devices, so these new power supplies have been designed for use specifically in the manufacturing environment. The parallel announcement of Intel's 13th Gen Core processors integrated into the Karbon 800 series of rugged computers further updates their existing industrial computing line.  The new PS1000 power supply from OnLogic is designed to provide stable, reliable power for advanced computing in the rugged industrial environment. The PS1000-1 can deliver up to 1000 watts at 48 volts to help deliver the power needed for modern GPU and graphic accelerator demands. The units come with forced air cooling fans that are resistant to shock and vibration, keeping the units from overheating in harsh environments where movement may be common. The PS1000-1 features a compact design to help save on component space to reduce the overall system footprint. Plug-and-play capabilities help save on installation with quick easy connectability using a standard duplex outlet. Since the PS1000-1 is designed specifically for computing applications, some of the pitfalls of other industrial power supplies can be avoided, including the need for a professional to connect exposed power terminals since there are none. The supply is also DIN rail compatible, further underscoring its application within industrial environments. The power supplies can be used for many different applications and include certifications for use in medical, maritime, and railway applications.  The Karbon 800 series of rugged computers is OnLogic’s most powerful computing system to date. The computers are designed to be used in applications that require a large amount of computational power to help users with: The computers feature either Intel's 12th Gen or 13th Gen processing power to create the necessary computational power needed for modern data-hungry applications.    The physical design of the Karbon 800 series has been carefully considered to optimize the low-profile form factor. Different models are available to fit different individual needs, some models including the capability to utilize OnLogic’s ModBay expansion. The ModBay expansion gives customers access to a wide range of additional connectivity and storage architecture options. Some features of the Karbon 800 include:  The trend has continued to be more and faster data computations as the years go by. This cannot be achieved without advancements in computational power, paralleled with the ability to supply that power safely and reliably to the processors. OnLogic continues to make strides in both categories, ensuring access to the latest computer technology for a wide range of applications and industries around the world. 