Precision, Speed, and a High Payload: ABB’s Latest SCARA Robot Hits the Market ABB Robotics has grown its portfolio of SCARA robots with the introduction of the IRB 930. The IRB 930 can handle high payloads and force-intensive tasks, meeting a greater need of applications and industries. The major global supplier of industrial robots, ABB Robotics, has added a high-payload SCARA robot to its portfolio. The new IRB 930 is designed to meet the growing needs of the SCARA market with its high payload and immense push-down force.    Typically, a SCARA robot is designed for light payloads and short reach. What they lack in payload and reach, they make up for with speed—a SCARA robot will outrun a 6-axis robot arm most times. SCARA robots are commonly found in automated assembly applications, picking parts from one location and placing them at another. Industries such as automotive, electronics, and renewable energy production are the biggest users of the SCARA robot.   While SCARA robots are not typically known for their payload capacity, ABB Robotics' newest model, the IRB 930, can handle up to 22 kg payloads—ABB Robotics' previous SCARA models have payloads up to 6 kg. The IRB 930 is available in three variations: two variants have a max payload of 12 kg, and one has a max payload of 22 kg. Robot reach is also a common feature that limits most SCARA robots. The IRB 930 has an increased reach of 0.85 m and 1.05 m, depending on the variant. This increase makes the IRB 930 capable of reaching over a meter with a 22 kg payload.  When assembling components, the robot is sometimes required to apply a force along the z-axis, which is referred to as a push-down force. The IRB 930 has a 200% increase in push-down capability over other ABB models. This ability ensures the positive assembly of components or complete adhesion in gluing applications. The IRB 930 uses ABB's newest OmniCore controller, which offers TrueMove and QuickMove and a repeatability deviation of 0.01 mm. These features ensure the robot will stay on the robot path regardless of the speed and that the robot will repeatedly return to the same location—again and again.   A common application for SCARA robots is offloading parts from a conveyor or an infeed station. SCARA robots are very good at quickly moving short distances; combined with a vision system, they can also be very accurate. When assembling parts in an automated fashion, the parts need to get from the feeder to the conveyor. While pneumatic or servo pick-and-place units can be used, a SCARA robot combined with a vision system can accurately locate the assembly location and update the place position on the fly. The same is true if picking the part from the feeder requires higher accuracy. Renewable energy production equipment has the same requirements as most automated assembly machines, only the components are heavier. Stainless steel battery housings filled with chemicals can get quite heavy, and moving these components around will require higher payload robots. The IRB 930 from ABB aims to fulfill these requirements with up to a 22 kg payload and an over 1-meter reach. 