ISA’s latest position paper highlights the crucial role of people in automation The International Society of Automation (ISA) has published a new position paper titled “Automation Depends on People to Make the World a Better Place.” The association explains in a press statement that advances in manufacturing, technology, sustainability and safety will all depend upon automation technologies and people working together to bring the most creative and innovative solutions to bear. ISA notes that with each innovation in society, corresponding headlines and public concern are amplified that this new development will be responsible for job loss. In its paper, ISA explains its position that automation does not simply eliminate jobs as some believe, but rather repurposes existing jobs and creates new ones. “As a society, our focus should be on preparing our workforce to meet the high and growing demand for engineers and technicians,” said Claire Fallon, ISA executive director. “We must educate enough people to be well versed in automation technologies, as well as the industry standards and conformance programs that support the automation field.” Companies worldwide are citing the need for more qualified staff – a demand that will only continue to grow as technologies progress, says the association. There are many resources and training programs in place for automation professionals to advance their careers. These can and should be bolstered by additional focus within the K-12, vocational, and higher education communities to prioritize programs for the next generation of automation engineers and technicians. “ISA has a long history of preparing the automation profession with the skills and knowledge they need to be successful and effective,” said Steve Mustard, ISA treasurer certified ISA trainer. “Keeping our finger on the pulse of technology advances and business challenges ensures that we are able to address upcoming demands and keep the profession evolving.” The position paper is available now on the ISA website. 