Baumer Launches Encoder for Functional Safety in Mobile Machinery Baumer has released an absolute encoder that meets the latest functional safety requirements. The robust encoder is designed to bring "maximum” safety and performance to harsh outdoor environments. Baumer, a global sensor and encoder solutions manufacturer, has released its latest product, the absolute encoder EAM580RS. The EAM580RS is designed to deliver safety and performance in harsh applications, including at mobile machinery and in outdoor environments. Additionally, the safety-certified encoder is set to provide safe automation while being cost-effective and easy to implement.    As mobile machinery becomes more automated, there is a greater need for safety-certified components that ensure said machinery operates safely, regardless of error or failure in one or more system parts. The addition of safety-certified components, however, increases a system’s cost and complexity. In response, Baumer has designed its absolute encoder EAM580RS to meet the latest functional safety requirements while keeping cost and complexity low.  Baumer’s new absolute encoder, the EAM580RS, meets the latest functional safety requirements: SIL2/PLd according to IEC 61508, ISO 13849:2023, and IEC 61800-5-3. The magnetic safety encoder has a stainless steel casing to protect it from harsh outdoor environments, and it can withstand common industrial factors, like vibrations and shock. Regarding the EAM580RS’s performance, the encoder is designed to boost the precision and speed of machinery with its speedy transmission rates and high precision positioning and motion control. Baumer’s EAM580RS can be configured using the Baumer Sensor Suite, Baumer’s user-friendly software for implementing IO-Link devices. The EAM580RS also provides secondary data, such as revolutions or input voltage, enabling users to monitor and leverage machine data where needed.    Baumer's EAM580RS is designed to bring safety to outdoor applications, such as at cranes and mobile working platforms. The EAM580RS encoder is available in two distinct designs: a variant with a clamping flange is currently on the market, and a variant with a hollow shaft design will be available in the first quarter of 2024. 