Emerson Takes Digital Transformation to Next Level With New Edge Solution Emerson has expanded its DeltaV automation platform with the introduction of DeltaV Edge Environment. DeltaV Edge Environment is designed to make data more accessible for OT and IT applications. Emerson announced the release of an integrated software that provides a secure, collaborative environment, unlocking siloed operational technology (OT) data. The democratized access to such data enables OT and production teams to share, analyze, organize, and manipulate data from the shop floor to generate performance-enhancing insights for industrial systems, reducing lead times and costs and boosting productivity.   Emerson’s DeltaV DCS is an automation system that incorporates a network of controllers working in concert to relay control functions to different system elements within an industrial facility. It features a modular structure to provide flexibility, whether to modify or extend its influence over operations as process requirements evolve. This modularity makes upkeep and upgrading easier. DeltaV DCS aims to enhance industrial processes, optimizing efficiency and assuring product quality by implementing comprehensive control strategies such as sequential, batch, and regulatory control. The technology adapts to the unique requirements of different workflows and sectors and can handle applications ranging from small to large-scale industrial pilot projects. Emerson's DeltaV DCS supports conventional communication protocols, enabling data interchange across DeltaV and other information technology (IT) systems. Through this integration, real-time data collected from machinery and edge devices on the factory floor can be sent to high-tier IT systems, enhancing overall operational efficiency and facilitating visibility and decision-making. Integrating IT and OT systems and devices serves as the foundation stone for successful digital transformation, offering a holistic view of automation processes.  Emerson has brought forward its DeltaV Edge Environment to maximize what is possible through DeltaV DCS. The secure environment serves as a gateway to DeltaV system data, which is crucial for running OT and IT applications. The four key components of the DeltaV Edge Environment are the Data Provider, Edge Node, Edge Orchestration, and an optional data diode.  The Data Provider, situated on a specialized DeltaV Application Station, continually reviews configuration data, alarms, incidents, and real-time parameters. It communicates this information to the Edge Environment while evaluating the most recent configuration hierarchy changes. The Data Provider combines multiple data streams into an individual outward data flow.    The Edge Node is an intelligent computer that functions as a highly skilled translator, translating essential DeltaV system data into a language other programs can understand. It uses specialized software to generate a digital twin of the data and system configuration. The Edge Node collects data from the Data Provider and organizes it into storage units using an Edge Data Service function. The data is stored in the Edge Environment database for no more than a year. The organized data is not locked away—instead, it has "access points" known as egress interfaces. These entries, which use technologies such as the Open Platform Communications United Architecture (OPC UA) server and the representational state transfer architectural style (REST API), allow other programs to gain access to and inspect the data.  Edge Orchestration is a centralized control center for the Edge Node, powered by Zededa's software capabilities. It enables users to effectively manage and operate their Edge Environments by providing transparency concerning diagnostics and the status of industrial systems. Through Edge Node, users can execute application deployments and updates, activations, network setups, reboots, plant-wide backups, and more. The Edge Node and Edge Orchestration are connected via a secure HTTPS connection, guaranteeing ongoing observation and management.  With the DeltaV Edge Environment, IT and OT users can expect easier access to near real-time automation data. DeltaV Edge Environment allows teams to manipulate, analyze, and organize data in a sandbox environment without the risk of interfering with the control system. Emerson’s DeltaV Edge Environment is designed to make valuable data accessible so companies can maximize their operations using informed, data-backed insights. 