Pilz PNOZmulti 2 Now With Safety over EtherCAT for Security and Efficiency PILZ has launched a configurable small controller that integrates machine and safety concepts. The PNOZmulti 2 with Safety over EtherCat is designed for safety and efficiency in production. PILZ’s latest configurable small controller, PNOZmulti 2, enables control and safety-related data transfer with its ability to support EtherCat and Safety over EtherCAT (FSoE) protocols.   To improve plant efficiency and make seamless data transfer between safety and production control systems, Pilz has released the PNOZmulti 2 with FSoE controller. The latest PNOZmulti 2 is a small controller for fast, efficient communication of safety and production control equipment in manufacturing. The controller is designed to give manufacturers a cost-effective way of expanding their safety-related plant structures. Transferring safety-related data can be troublesome, and Pilz has worked to make the task much easier than before. The PNOZmulti 2 can connect to a wide range of operational controllers. Manufacturers can now connect their safety systems to all common fieldbus and Ethernet communication systems used throughout the manufacturing world. This connection means that diagnostic and status information can be easily transferred to a higher-level controller in applications that require it. The new PNOZmulti 2 can simultaneously support the open communication system EtherCAT with the safe protocol FSoE. This simultaneous support means the controller can relay both safety and production data to the applicable places. The new communication modules offer users a cost-effective way of transferring diagnostic and status information to higher-level controllers, where the data can then be used for improved plant operation.    Pilz's PNOZmulti 2 with FSoE controller can be used with Version 11.3 of the software tool PNOZmulti Configurator, which allows it to function as FSoE Master, FSoE Slave, or EtherCAT Slave. When used with the PNOZ m B1 base unit, the PNOZmulti 2 can make up to four Master-Master and up to 60 Master-Slave connections. The PNOZmulti can be connected to different fieldbus systems without reprogramming, helping save time and labor costs since one fieldbus module can be easily exchanged with a more appropriate one. Visualization is available through the PASvisu software, a web-based software designed with easy visualization in mind. PASvisu can be used with the operator terminals PMIvisu to create a functional automation solution. A "one-cable solution" facilitates the flexible use of FSoE-capable actuators and sensors in the network. For example, the PNOZmulti 2 can be used as an FSoE Master for safety-related networking in conjunction with Pilz’s safe radar sensor, the PSENradar, and safe drive technology, Pilz Motion Control, both of which come with FSoE functionality, for creating additional safety-related networking application possibilities.  PNOZ multi 2’s support of FSoE allows for control and safety-related data transfer for EtherCAT. With various connection options, the newly designed PNOZmulti 2 can function in numerous production scenarios. FSoE is fit for safety applications up to an IEC 61508 SIL 3 level. 