Banner Introduces High-Power Strip Light for Surface Inspections Banner Engineering has recently released a new industrial strip light. The high-power, adjustable WLB72 is designed for surface and paint inspection applications in the automotive industry. Banner Engineering, a global leader in sensing, communication, and automation control technology, has recently unveiled its latest high-power WLB72 industrial strip light. This lighting technology is designed to enhance visibility during the inspection of surface contours and paint quality, particularly in the automotive, aerospace manufacturing, and construction machinery industries. Promising to improve productivity for QC workers, the WLB72 also reduces energy costs with its uniform and bright illumination.    One of the notable features of Banner’s WLB72 industrial strip light is the unique so-called ‘zebra effect,’ a concept of casting distinct lines of light that travel down the inspected object, showing any small ridges or bumps on the inspected surface when placed in series. This feature makes detecting flaws on the surface easy, simplifying the overall inspection. Not to ignore the aspect of comfort to workers, this industrial strip light is equipped with an eye shield window that creates a more conducive work environment, cutting down on the literal glare for more ergonomic inspection conditions.    Equipped with an industry-standard quick-disconnect (QD) connector, the installation process of the WLB72 industrial strip light is simplified and trouble-free as the connection type reduces manual wiring. For control, the strip light is equipped with an LCS10 controller that offers a simple plug-and-play installation and is used to adjust the intensity of the light, giving users flexibility when managing its capabilities and customization. Offering analog 0-10 volt dimming capabilities, the strip light goes beyond standard lighting solutions, catering to the needs of different inspection requirements in dynamic situations.  Designed with a metal housing and a shatter-resistant window, the WLB72 industrial strip light can withstand harsh industrial environments with its durable design. Boasting a low total cost of ownership (TCO), the industrial strip light provides a maintenance-free solution that ensures performance longevity and years of reliability. Aiming at providing an inspection solution that consumes less energy, Banner Engineering has also balanced the strip light with high performance with its impressive illumination-to-power output of up to 130 lumens per watt.  As production rates and automation continue accelerating, the race to improve inspection efficiency is prompting the emergence of new innovative solutions. Technologies like Banner's WLB72 high-power industrial strip light offer impressive features that make it a valuable inspection tool in a wide range of industrial spectrum with its ease of installation, cost-effectiveness, and bright and uniform illumination. With its durable design, flexible installation, and versatile customization, the new industrial strip light from Banner Engineering will greatly benefit the motor vehicle, aerospace, construction, and automation industries. 