IO-Link Empowers Latest Photoelectric Sensor Lineup From Carlo Gavazzi Carlo Gavazzi Automation has launched a new line of photoelectric laser sensors with selectable application functions and IO-Link for enhanced capabilities in a multitude of settings. Sensing objects using light (photo or optoelectronics) is one of the oldest methods of detection and distance measurement in the automation industry. Since the medium is light, objects with higher degrees of transparency or reflection are particularly tricky to detect accurately.  Carlo Gavazzi, the global manufacturer of products used in electronics, renewable energy, and building automation, has recently announced the latest photoelectric laser sensor series, claiming the most functionality in a single photo unit currently on the market. The sensors have been designed to give engineers and end users a sensor with enough flexibility to be used in some of the most challenging optical applications.    The sensors provide many different configuration capabilities and preventative maintenance functionality to provide users with valuable system information. Since the sensors can be used in such a wide array of applications, replacement part inventory can be consolidated to reduce the variety of types of sensors previously necessary.  The new LD30 IO-Link sensors from Carlo Gavazzi Inc. come with a variety of unique features that give them increased functionality for a wide range of applications. The housing of the laser has been designed with space savings in mind and fits within a compact housing for applications where cell real estate is at a premium. Background or foreground suppression is available to help with improved sensing in a variety of different settings. The laser itself is a class 1 laser with a diameter of 1 mm enabling it to detect small objects. The sensing distance is adjustable with three different maximum lengths of 100, 300, or 600 mm to suit different applications. Two different housings are available as well, depending on the type of environment the sensors intend to be used in. There is an IP69K ECOLAB-approved stainless steel AISI316L housing for use in hygienic or harsh environments (these models are denoted by the LD30E part number suffix) and an IP67 plastic housing for use in less demanding industrial applications (denoted by suffix LD30C). The stainless housing can be used in applications that involve a harsh washdown regime, including high-pressure, high-temperature washdown scenarios.    The sensors are connected to the control system giving them efficient data delivery. Each unit has an internal ID and IO Device Description (IODD) that describes the sensor, its parameters, interface configuration, diagnosis data, and process data. Sensor replacement is made easier because the IO-Link master is able to simply transmit the parameters from the old sensor to the replacement without any new configuration necessary. Because the sensor is IO-Link enabled, more advanced detection functions can be used than simple discrete object detection. Five individual application functions can be configured through IO-Link:  The LD30 photoelectric sensor line with IO-Link by Carlo Gavazzi has been designed to help users reduce replacement sensor inventory by providing a more versatile laser sensor. It has the capability to be used in many different applications, easily configured to fit various manufacturing processes and products, including industries like packaging, material handling, food and beverage, and machine tooling. The integration of IO-Link ensures that more data transfer is possible for things like unique configurations, preventative maintenance, and application functions. 