WAGO’s New Advanced PLC CPUs Provide Cost-Effective Control Solution WAGO has recently released two PLC CPU modules, the Basic Controller 100 series, offering cost-effective control solutions while providing advanced communication and programming features. WAGO, a company widely recognized for innovative control and automation solutions across virtually all industries, has recently released two new PLCs in their WAGO I/O system that offer affordable control solutions and versatility in their features. The new Basic Controller 100 Series includes two new CPU modules, the 750-8000 and 750-8001. Programmed using the CODESYS 3.5 engineering software, the two new PLCs offer features that make them fit for use in large-volume control applications where cost is critical.    Designed to be economical yet powerful, the Basic Controllers work with the WAGO I/O system in Ethernet networks and offer impressive features that enhance functionality. Both CPUs include 16 MB of program memory. The 750-8000 is designed with an additional 16 MB of data memory, while the 750-8001 includes 32 MB of data memory for more extensive program functions. An onboard SD card slot included in the 750-8001 frame allows easy memory expansion and data transfer. Equipped with two Ethernet ports, both control modules can be easily daisy changed to other devices for network expansion or redundancy for added reliability (device-level ring topology), eliminating many of the needs for external hubs or switches. For seamless integration within the network, the controllers create a local process image after detecting all I/O modules connected to the controller.  The Basic Controller 100 series offers role-based access control (RBAC), an integrated web server for configuration, and easy visualization of the status information of the PLC. The controllers support RFC 5424 Syslog protocol and Fieldbus communication in Modbus TCP/UDP networks. For easy integration into IT environments, the two new controllers support standard Ethernet protocols like HTTPS, DNS, BOOTP, SNTP, DHCP, SNMP, and SFTP. The two Ethernet interfaces featured in the controllers also support auto-negotiation and auto MDI (X). The Basic Controller 750-8001 supports digital and analog I/O modules with high data transfer rates of 10/100 Mbits/s. Capable of multitasking, the controller also features an RTC that is capacitor-backed. The 750-8000 and 750-8001 controllers can be programmed using the full range of IEC 61131-3 supported programming languages.  As industries are racing to equip their control systems to fit the most cutting-edge demands, manufacturers and engineers are looking to find control solutions that best fit these needs. This includes sourcing out controllers that offer versatile features while maintaining cost-effective margins. WAGO’s new Basic Controller 100 series provides versatility in terms of cost, memory, the user-friendly web server, and the variety of supported protocols, making the controllers compatible with a wide range of remote devices, ideal for use in the high-tech automation and control systems in the era of Industry 4.0. 