Phoenix Contact 24 V Power Supplies With Optional Multichannel Circuit Breakers Compact, 3rd-generation TRIO POWER supplies are targeted at machine-building applications with power output up to 960 W. New TRIO POWER supplies from Phoenix Contact feature a compact design that allows designers to mount multiple TRIO supplies together without an air gap. The series has output current ratings of 5 to 40 A and optional multichannel circuit breaker protection.  These supplies operate with AC inputs from 85 to 264 VAC or DC inputs from 90 to 264 VDC. There are models for single-phase (1 AC) and three-phase (3 AC) inputs. They can be connected in parallel or series with other TRIO POWER supplies.    With output current ratings of 5 to 40 A at 24 VDC, these units can provide up to 960 W of output power. The output voltage can be fine-tuned from 24 to 28 VDC with a potentiometer that includes a mechanical lock to prevent tampering. A dynamic boost features allows the output to increase to 150% of rating for 5 seconds. This can help start difficult loads or accommodate brief overload conditions.  With an installed depth of only 125 mm they are suitable for installation in small 210 mm cabinets. In addition, the vertically arranged front connector design contributes to the narrow overall widths and saves space in the control cabinet. Each circuit connector features an easy-to-use push-in connection technology, so no tools are required. Marking fields and stripping identification contribute to the ease of use.    They can be snap-mounted to a DIN rail or screwed onto a flat surface. They are rated for full power from -25 to +60 °C and derated for operation up to +70 °C.  Certain models of these 3rd-generation TRIO POWER supplies come with 4 or 8-channel electronic circuit breakers. The optional integrated multichannel device protection saves time and money by not having to install extra device protection. The trip thresholds can be set on a channel-by-channel basis from 1 to 10 A. The channel LEDs notify that the circuit breaker has exceeded the tripping value. A 7-segment display indicates the preset tripping value.  All TRIO POWER models include multicolor LEDs and a collective relay contact to signify DC ok, overload, and short circuit. An optional IO-Link communication interface provides additional diagnostics and parameterization.    Using the IO-Link communication, the power supply can provide supply data, signal states, and signal parameters to an IO-Link gateway or master. You can also communicate to the TRIO POWER supply to assign new nominal current values for individual channels.  Many automation devices use a DC power supply to convert incoming AC voltage to a DC voltage. A quality power supply can save countless hours troubleshooting intermittent problems due to voltage fluctuations. In a typical control cabinet design, the DC power supply will reside in a location so that it has access to source AC voltage and DC devices. The DC output will then be broken into branches with circuit protection devices, with automation devices located after the protection devices. Designers can reduce the number of branch protection devices and wire automation devices directly to the power supply by using a TRIO POWER supply from Phoenix Contact and selecting the optional integrated circuit protection. 