IIoT Gateway From Softing Gathers Data From PROFIBUS Networks Adding data collection to existing PROFIBUS networks doesn’t always require a complete network upgrade anymore, thanks to Softing and the new SmartLink IIoT gateway. When passing data over a network to another system, you will often need to rely on a device called a gateway. Once a project evolves to the level of IIoT technology (secure internet connectivity), it’s important to collect data from PLC systems and pass it to a PC, maybe on-site or maybe a cloud server.  Plant floor-to-internet connectivity requires a gateway, a small device that resides inside an electrical panel that connects directly to the machine network or the field devices. A second network port on the gateway connects to the internet or plant network so that the connection can be made between the facility or cloud servers and the floor-level equipment. Softing Industrial has recently released a gateway device for PROFIBUS networks and HART devices.    For a long time, PROFIBUS networks have been used extensively in automated systems. Functions such as input/output signals and servo positioning were communicated over PROFIBUS, but today, the Ethernet-based PROFINET protocol has been increasingly replacing PROFIBUS for new installations. The SmartLink HW-DP is an IoT gateway to allow PROFIBUS networks access to industry 4.0 technology so that equipment owners can upgrade the data collection segment of their operation without having to replace existing equipment with a more modern protocol. The SmartLink HW-DP works by connecting to existing PROFIBUS networks or directly to HART devices, then allows modern ethernet protocols such as OPC UA, MQTT, or even HART-IP to access data within the PROFIBUS and HART networks. The advantages of using a gateway like the SmartLink HW-DP include security and isolation. The modern protocols used with SmartLink are industry-standard protocols, proven to be secure with proper network maintenance. The gateway also doesn’t require PLC interaction, so brown-field equipment can be upgraded without PLC intervention. The SmartLink is compatible with Siemens ET200SP, ET200iSP, and ET200M, it is also compatible with some ABB, Pepperl+Fuchs, Turck, and WAGO I/O devices. The SmartLink can also be used with some HART I/O modules from Siemens, ABB, Pepperl+Fuchs, Turck, and WAGO. The device runs on 18 to 32 volts DC and has a typical current draw of 200 mA with an operating temperature range of -40 °C to 65 °C    Collecting data from automation equipment used to be very expensive, so plant operators would often opt to simply not have data collection installed. Today, that cost has decreased significantly, thanks to improvements in Ethernet networking technology and the ever-lowering cost of computer equipment.    A major obstacle often faced when adding data collection is the act of physically and programmatically poking around inside the PLC of a running machine. Maintenance staff tend to get a little uneasy when programmers open their laptops anywhere near running equipment. To ease the burden, gateways such as the SmartLink allow for newer network technology to talk to the networks directly, so no ‘poking around’ inside the controller is required. I/O status data can be captured directly from existing ET200 modules, or new modules with PROFIBUS technology can be added and connected directly to the gateway. Once the gateway has access to the PROFIBUS network, the signals can be translated and sent to servers over secure protocols, like OPC UA or MQTT. Using a gateway such as the SmartLink HW-DP can help breathe life into existing equipment without having to add expensive hardware.  With the push towards IoT and Industry 4.0 (which really boils down to this: the systems used to take beneficial actions using plant data), managers are now looking at adding data collection to existing equipment. Whether for predictive maintenance reasons or just to get a better understanding of equipment efficiencies, adding data collection to existing or brownfield equipment can be done, thanks in part to gateways such as the SmartLink. 