Emerson’s New Fisher FIELDVUE Valve Controller Turns Data Into Action Emerson has released the latest Fisher FIELDVUE series controller for pilot-operated valves, complete with their trademarked 'Advice at the Device' technology. Emerson has expanded their Fisher FIELDVUE valve controller line with the DVC7K controller. At first glance, it may appear to be another valve controller, a product category that Emerson has been developing for over 30 years. With over 3 million units sold and more than 10 billion service hours on the Fisher FIELDVUE line, it would be easy to make this mistake. However, this new valve controller features improved communication and easy-to-use tools, making it an attractive choice for upgrading and designing new systems with the new user in mind.  This new valve controller, like many, converts an electrical signal into a pneumatic signal for operating an air pilot control valve. Compressed air, often considered the 'fourth utility' runs through many industrial and manufacturing facilities. It makes a convenient fluid for operating machinery, such as valves. As data from sensors or manual controllers is used in a control loop, the 4-20 mA control signal from the valve controller is converted into a change in compressed air pressure. The change in air pressure can be used to move the valve's internal components, altering the flow through the valve body.    Pneumatic systems like this provide tight control of flow in an efficient and reliable manner. With some additional design requirements, they can be used in environments with flammable or explosive vapors, as the valve is physically controlled by the change in compressed air, not electricity that can spark.  The DVC7K valve controller not only performs the standard duties required for a control valve, moving position to change the flow rate, but it also includes a host of standard diagnostic tools with advanced communication protocols for simplicity of use. The valve controller monitors the data and can offer advice to operators on actions that should be performed, using Emerson’s 'Advice at the Device' technology. The advice given and the recommended action by the controller depend on the fault condition. Perhaps 'Advice at the Device' is a bit of an understatement, since the data is not restricted to local viewing only. Using Emerson Secure Bluetooth communication protocols, the recommended action items can be received on a smartphone or tablet up to 30 feet from the device. From there, a wired Ethernet connection can take data much farther away. Valve control can be manipulated and valve health diagnostics can be viewed from a control room. This frees up technician time and workload by not requiring them to physically visit each valve in a facility.    The valve controllers are weathertight and can be easily mounted on valve bodies or farther away as needed. Its intrinsically safe design means it is safe to use in environments with flammable vapors. Furthermore, the design is linkage-less, meaning there are fewer moving parts to maintain or wear.  The DVC7K valve controller is a fool-proof device that makes tracking plant maintenance much easier. New technicians can quickly learn its operation, making it one less thing to worry about during troubleshooting procedures. 