Rockwell Automation Establishes New FactoryTalk Optix Portfolio Rockwell Automation has recently released its new FactoryTalk Optix Portfolio, featuring five core solutions to help users customize for their specific data visualization needs. Rockwell Automation, a global leader in industrial automation and digital transformation, has recently announced the release of the new FactoryTalk Optix Portfolio.  This new portfolio includes five core solutions to help industrial organizations design and build human-machine interface (HMI) systems for their specific needs. The technology has been designed with adaptability and flexibility to meet not only diverse scenarios for present situations, but also with the ability to adapt and change for future alterations. This can help to keep users up-to-date should their specific needs change over time.    The portfolio features an open architecture for users to design an innovative solution for each specific use, containing different options for the design, deployment, and connectivity of the system. Rockwell has worked to design a future-ready approach that allows for multi-user collaboration, a web-based design and testing solution, and integrated version control. The FactoryTalk Optix is the latest addition to Rockwell’s cloud-based solutions, looking to extend users’ productivity by providing new capabilities and helping to overcome current limitations.  The FactoryTalk Optix portfolio includes five different core solutions. The core solutions allow users to choose their own specific technology mix, depending on the task at hand. It gives them the ability to use visualization software for HMI design that can work with both Rockwell Automation and with third-party controllers. The software can be run using whatever hardware the customer chooses, and there is no need to pay for unused features, further helping to reduce the cost of the system implementation. The FactoryTalk Optix software is a visualization platform designed to improve processes, efficiencies, and deliverables. It can help customers achieve higher levels of scalability, interoperability, and collaboration. Teams can collaborate anytime, anywhere because of the software’s trackability, tracing each edit action with both an author and time stamp for full transparency. The visualization platform can be accessed from a web browser or downloaded directly to a local computer. The OptixPanel graphic terminals can be added to the system to give users PC-like usability for a familiar experience. The terminals are sealed for physical security, and with no operating system, there isn’t a need for an additional software security system. Cost can be reduced on smaller applications as a result of a superior price-performance ratio. The devices come pre-loaded with FactoryTalk Optix and FactoryTalk Remote Access software licenses, meaning they are ready to use as soon as they are connected. FactoryTalk Remote Access allows users to access the system from anywhere in the world with an internet connection. This means that anyone with a connection can view, assist, manage, and troubleshoot whenever needed. The extra connectivity can be beneficial in saving time and money whenever there are problems with production issues. It allows domain experts access to critical issues no matter their location and can help resolve issues faster without travel time and expense. The ASEM™ 6300 Industrial PC is an industrial PC that can be used to give greater customization. They are based on the seventh generation Core i3, i5, and i7 Intel Kaby Lake H and Intel Celeron Skylake processors, giving them the processing power for industrial applications.    Rockwell’s Embedded Edge Compute Module looks to make users proactive instead of reactive in their decision-making through the power of edge computing in combination with computer vision and analytics. The software comes with over 50 new capabilities and can be used for local and remote visual data processing.  Accessing data is one of the most critical elements to ensuring a smooth, continuous operation in a modern, competitive industrial environment. Using the latest tools to provide visualization for operators and engineers, the Optix portfolio from Rockwell is designed to give actionable insights into process data to keep the system alive and healthy for many years. 