Siemens Announces SINEC: New Industrial Cybersecurity Testing Suite As industrial manufacturers increasingly rely on connected plant networks, cybersecurity is a growing concern, Siemens has recently released SINEC, a new security suite aimed to help. Modern manufacturing and automation require more advanced network connectivity than in the past, especially with the rise of Industry 4.0 and IIoT technology and devices. This means that manufacturers have an increased risk from cyberattacks and other security threats as more and more of their equipment and infrastructure rely on connected networks to function properly.  Connected manufacturing plant networks offer manufacturers many benefits, including a higher level of efficiency with reduced downtime. This comes from both the limiting of data silos and as a result of predictive maintenance. With the use of enhanced networks, cyberattacks become more likely and have the possibility of being more damaging to plant infrastructure. In order to help manufacturers mitigate the risk of cyberattacks, Siemens has developed and released the new SINEC Security Inspector.    The SINEC Security Inspector offers manufacturers a single-user interface that encompasses a framework of different cybersecurity tools. Siemens originally developed the software for their own processes, but has developed it further to be of use in nearly any industrial setting. The suite includes many different benefits: The framework can be used for active one-time scanning of individual devices, fragmented network segments, or entire network infrastructure scans. The scanning can be done whenever convenient, often during scheduled maintenance time slots. The software provides customers with the capability to scan their entire IT/OT environment, all the way down to individual components. When using SINEC, customers are able to discover risks and problems earlier in their development, helping them to quickly address threats before they grow into more serious issues. It is able to look through different equipment and assets found across the shop floor, regardless of brand or manufacturer. This greatly helps consolidate separated equipment into one single scan process using one single software. In addition to Siemens software, the suite includes software created by the company Tenable for vulnerability management. Other third-party testing tools and further applications developed internally by Siemens are set to be added over time as an addition to the base software that Siemens has been testing and developing for their own use over the span of years.    SINEC offers customers comprehensive security checks that can be customized to adjust to company standards for network and device security. It is able to detect known vulnerabilities and even offers security recommendations for risk mitigation where applicable. A summary of key findings can be created as a report to management for risk-based decision-making. The software makes available a list of all inventory, including product manufacturers with in-depth data on third-party components. It can also be used to provide a complete asset catalog with product models, hardware and software versions, in addition to a tool kit for testing applications and infrastructure. Supply chain security will always be at the forefront of technology advancement, but issues can be reduced with the use of an impartial, neutral, and repeatable testing methodology, like the new SINEC solution from Siemens. 