Uniting Manufacturing and Technology: Looking Back at SOUTHTEC 2023 The SOUTHTEC show in Greenville, SC highlighted advancements in manufacturing technologies including design, CNC equipment, robotics, additive manufacturing, and quality services. The Control.com team wrapped up another exciting trade show this week with a visit to Greenville, SC to see SOUTHTEC, highlighting the most recent advancements in manufacturing technology. This show is part of a 4-region Manufacturing Technology series with similar shows in New England, Texas, and California. It’s always amazing to see manufacturing tools in person, but when the machines are actively running on the show floor, the excitement and energy are taken to a whole new level! A few segments of technology stood out as frontrunners in the modern trend for heightened efficiency (less waste of material and energy) and lowered barriers to entry (cost and difficulty to set up/program).  Additive manufacturing, known to many as 3D printing, has evolved through many generations of technology since its beginnings as a hobbyist sensation. The technology behind metal powder bed fusion, known as laser sintering, enables the creation of impressively large metal parts while retaining the strength of many traditional machining practices.    Phillips showcased the technology in a partnership with EOS North America, displaying the results of additive manufacturing for the aerospace industry in the form of a printed combustion chamber, reducing the complexity and time of assembly manufacturing, even though the printing itself is a slow process.  CNC controllers are the backbone of the manufacturing industry. That’s not to say that the clamps, spindles, servo motors, and tooling packages are not important, but the precision and speed afforded by the latest controllers pave the way for the impressive 4- and 5-axis machines, invaluable to modern industry.    Haas demonstrated the latest CNC control devices with displays in not only their own booth but also in partnerships with companies across the show floor.  Making the parts is a great first step, but verifying the accuracy and quality of the finished product is critical to a successful operation. For some companies, accuracy and measurements extend beyond just the parts and include the operation and equipment itself.    Zoller is a company that offers products in the fields of inspection and quality measurement, but also in a unique application of shrink fitting for tooling in CNC applications. The result of shrink fitting is a tight-fitting tool shank in the chuck of the machine, eliminating slippage and minimizing broken tool ends from misuse.  Speaking of tool holding and clamping, the topic is quite important for high-speed manufacturers. Not only is it important to tightly clamp the tools (for obvious reasons), but the speed of the operation is also important. Swapping tools between operations may account for massive downtime if it takes several minutes to heat and cool the chuck.    Haimer is a company that also specializes in shrink-fitting tools and chucks for high-quality and high-speed end tool swapping applications. Pair this with automated loading/unloading, automated inspection, and high-end CNC controls, and it’s possible to build a fast, modern production operation!  The subject of tending the CNC machine is also critical from several angles. We certainly need to keep loading and unloading the blank and finished parts, but what happens when we cannot staff an extra required shift or if we cannot keep pace with an increase in production? This is where robot CNC tending lends a hand (or gripper).    There are numerous applications of robotic and (cobot) CNC tending solutions, but one interesting aspect of Yaskawa/Motoman’s solution is the inclusion of comprehensive simulation tools to virtually create the environment and process before the first physical machine is bolted to the floor. This ensures minimum downtime and heightened productivity, and any future developments can be tested well before the hardware is installed.  Where would we be without training and education? Obviously, we’d be attempting to drive complex processes with the hope that they succeed by sheer luck, and pray they never fail. But that’s no way to run a successful operation.    FANUC has partnered with Bantam Tools to design a CNC machine that is run by a FANUC CNC controller, just like those used for large, sophisticated machines. However, by placing the controls on a simpler model, the price becomes affordable for educational institutions to provide students with a firm foundation in hands-on skills before entering the workforce. Great job, FANUC and Bantam Tools! 