Visualize Equipment Data in a SNAP! Banner’s New Asset Monitoring Gateway Banner Engineering has released a monitoring gateway for the SNAP sensor product line, visualizing data across sensor networks attached to the equipment and assets, not the products being created. In any automated process or equipment, sensors are used to measure and report real-world measurements to a control system or SCADA system. Without these sensors, the control system wouldn’t know what is happening with the equipment or process. Sensor values are typically directed through a signal amplifier or conditioner, and then routed to the control system (PLC or IPC) where the value is used to solve logic. The designer can also display the raw or scaled value on the HMI for the operator or maintenance to view.  Banner Engineering has a product family that uses proprietary technology to connect multiple sensors on a single communication bus, called the SNAP technology. This plug-and-play technology allows technicians to quickly and easily plug sensors into an industrial network such as IO-Link, Modbus, Ethernet/IP, or PROFINET through the use of network hubs. Most recently, Banner has released a monitor gateway that allows technicians to view the real-time status and values of these SNAP sensors.    We already have plenty of sensors attached to the product line to detect the successful creation and flow of the finished products. Data collection on equipment or processes allows analysts insight into exactly how the equipment itself is performing. Poor system performance can be seen at a glance when the correct data is collected properly, which is why Banner Engineering has introduced the asset monitoring gateway (AMG) with SNAP ID. The asset monitoring gateway device can detect, display data, or collect data from up to 20 SNAP devices on one network. The data can be viewed on the onboard touchscreen or using Banner’s optional cloud data services platform with its customizable dashboards. Compatible sensors use Banner’s SNAP ID technology which comprises up to 20 sensors in the SNAP product family. All of the compatible sensors use industry-standard M12 connectors. SNAP ID-enabled devices are configured to work with the asset monitoring gateway right out of the box, so there is no need for complex programming or previous programming knowledge.    The onboard touchscreen allows users to configure and customize sensors as well as set up data collection through Banner CDS or VIBE-IQ. Internet and cellular configurations are also available. The touchscreen also allows warnings, alarms, and sensor groups to be configured. A K30 indicator is added to the top of the unit for rapid indication of faults or warnings. The status of your assets can be determined at a glance. When all configured assets are operating as intended, the K30 will remain green. When an asset reaches a warning or alarm limit, the indicator will turn yellow or red, prompting quick responsive action.    Monitoring the status of sensors can be a time-consuming task if you need to display the values on an HMI. By using Banner’s asset monitoring gateway, technicians can quickly display all the sensor values that are using the SNAP ID technology. This system works well for brown-field equipment that doesn’t already have data collection installed. Simply add SNAP sensors to existing equipment, connect the gateway to the internet, and within minutes you could be collecting and analyzing data from your equipment, monitoring values from a remote location and ensuring long-lasting healthy operation of your equipment with fewer surprise failures. The dream of every maintenance team! 