Mitsubishi Electric and TXOne Networks partner to expand OT security offering Mitsubishi Electric Corporation and TXOne Networks have signed a long-term cooperation agreement to expand the operational-technology (OT) security businesses of both companies. The agreement covers both technology development and marketing. TXOne Networks explains in a press statement that OT and industrial control systems in manufacturing sites are often operated in closed environments, with IT and OT systems separated from each other. However, the emergence of the Internet of Things (IoT) and digital transformation is allowing these domains to converge. As a result, cyberattacks targeting manufacturing sites in industries such as semiconductors and automobiles have increased, highlighting the need for robust security measures in factories. Through this partnership, both companies aim to create new value in OT security by combining Mitsubishi Electric’s assessment, maintenance and operation services as well as control equipment and systems with TXOne’s OT security products. The new OT security solutions are expected to improve manufacturing productivity, efficiency and safety as well as security levels throughout the supply chains of various industries, states TXOne. “We look forward to creating new value in OT security by combining OT technology and expertise for manufacturing, infrastructure and building automation with security technology for information systems,” said Kunihiko Kaga, Mitsubishi Electric’s representative executive officer and industry and mobility business area owner. “With the continued evolution of digital transformation and the increasing sophistication and complexity of cyberattacks, OT security measures must extend from the information communication layer to the control communication layer and deeper into the network layer. We are confident that our synergy with TXOne’s OT network segmentation and defence technologies will enable us to contribute to greater safety and security in OT environments and the world beyond.” Mitsubishi Electric offers OT security solutions to protect manufacturing sites from cyberattacks. The company has reportedly developed in-depth knowledge of control equipment and systems, especially for manufacturing. TXOne provides OT security solutions that enable manufacturers to comply with security guidelines, such as the semiconductor sector’s SEMI E187 specification. The company’s OT-native network segmentation and defence technologies reportedly enable customers to mitigate the impact of cyberattacks. “As cyber threats continue to evolve, TXOne remains committed to fortifying the industrial landscape with pioneering OT security solutions,” said Terence Liu, CEO of TXOne Networks. “The collaboration between Mitsubishi Electric and TXOne Networks creates a unique value with our deep-rooted expertise in both IT and OT, forming comprehensive and holistic security services to safeguard manufacturing assets against the ever-evolving cyber risks at once. Our mutual dedication empowers industries to thrive securely in this digital age.” 