Think BIG! Phoenix Contact Expands STEM and STEELS-focused Program Phoenix Contact assigns $565,000 in funds to enrich the school curriculum for students in Central Pennsylvania with hands-on, engineer-led STEM and STEELS education. Phoenix Contact announced the provision of $565,000 in funds to the Capital Area Intermediate Unit (CAIU). Phoenix Contact believes in investing in the engineers of the future and seeks to broaden the operations of its Think BIG! program to reach fourth graders across more schools in the U.S. The idea is to provide engineer-curated teaching and a more formalized curriculum, opening up the worlds of STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math) and the less-familiar STEELS (Science, Technology & Engineering, Environmental Literacy, and Sustainability) to young people at schools and informing them of exciting career paths. Phoenix Contact, the supplier of the investment, is a globally recognized manufacturer of connection, electronics, and automation solutions headquartered in Blomberg, North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany.    According to the Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study (TIMSS), the U.S. came fifteenth out of sixty-four educational systems (including countries that form part of the International Association for the Evaluation of Educational Achievement, IEA). Between 1995 and 2019, average scores in mathematics of fourth and eighth-grade pupils increased, while no significant change was observed between 2015 and 2019. For science, average scores showed no significant change for the long or short term. Since the previous administration of TIMSS in 2015, the average fourth-grade science score in the U.S. in 2019 has declined. The necessity for economic success and national security drives a strong focus on STEM and STEELS education in the U.S. STEM and STEELS professions to drive innovation and economic progress by providing increased earning potential and job security, ensuring national competitiveness and economic resilience. STEM and STEELS developments are critical for national security as well as solving global issues such as global warming and healthcare.  The CIAU is a regional educational service agency that serves 60 elementary schools in the counties of Perry, northern York, Cumberland, and Dauphin, in south-central Pennsylvania. The PA School Code allowed for the establishment of intermediate units like the CAIU in 1971. They strive to meet the needs of local school districts by providing affordable, high-quality educational programs. The CAIU connects local school districts with the Department of Education, helping create and establish curricula, integrate tech, provide special education, and train educators. Furthermore, they supply pupil services and assistance to non-public schools and participate in statewide partnership initiatives, all of which contribute to a more enriching educational environment.    Phoenix Contact and Harrisburg-based Foose Elementary School established the Think BIG! program in 2017. As part of the program, employees and volunteers from Phoenix Contact and other local businesses step into the classroom each month (from November to May) to give science lessons, ones that are engaging and hands-on. The lessons focus on concepts concerned with renewable energy, which are curated to integrate STEM and STEELS, fostering career exploration in the green energy space. According to research, young people at school are already forming professional beliefs concerning their career path and building a growth mindset. It is critical to encourage thorough job exploration at a young age for their future career success. The CAIU believes there is an urgent need for proficient STEM students in the U.S., and beginning STEM and STEELS education (through initiatives like Think BIG!) with fourth-grade pupils is an effective way to meet this need. CAIU will monitor Phoenix Contact personnel throughout their monthly trips to Foose Elementary School in the 2023-24 school year as they develop the curriculum. The CAIU aims to extend the reach of Think BIG! to as many as 15 to 20 more elementary schools from 2024 to 2025. 