Small Size, Rugged Strength | Pilz Introduces New Safety Locking Devices To enhance safety and productivity, Pilz has introduced two new gate guards, the PSENslock 2 and PSENmlock mini locking devices, which are both reliable and durable in compact form factors. Across all industries, safety is an important factor of consideration and as a result, most opt for efficient safety locking devices to protect their equipment and workers. Pilz, a company that provides solutions in safe automation, has analyzed these needs and taken pride in introducing the latest additions to its lineup of products, including two new safety locking devices: PSENslock 2 and PSENmlock mini. The two innovative solutions are intended to address specific safety concerns of industries while increasing productivity.    Suitable for space-critical applications, the PSENmlock mini has an impressive compact design with dimensions of just 30 mm x 30 mm x 159 mm, allowing it to fit easily in flaps or covers. The new innovative solution offers easy installation with its flexibility as it can allow different forms of configurations allowing attachment from the left, right, or front giving it a versatile mounting option that is fast and saves installation time. The PSENmlock mini has an impressive 1950 N holding force that makes it robust in terms of offering a strong safeguarding solution. The safeguarding solution also guarantees its safety even during a power failure with its bistable guard locking principle and a dual-channel operation that works effectively to reduce power consumption. In the event of wrong wiring or a fault in the locking mechanism, the OSSD outputs of the device detect the problem and immediately switch state to ensure safety detection.  The PSENslock 2 is another solution from Pilz that is designed to be used in robust process guarding that demands high levels of hygiene and ruggedness, being rated for IP67 / IP6K9K protection. The hygienic design rating of the PSENslock 2 gives it optimal performance as it prevents the accumulation of dirt and dust, with some variants being designed with stainless steel components for hygiene-critical applications. Designed for flexibility, the actuator mounting can be adjusted as it has offset tolerances on its large contact surface to handle vibrations or misalignments. PSENslock 2 is made for use up to category PL e, Cat. 4 of EN ISO 13849, and can be used both singly and in series to secure safety gates.    The two new safety locking devices by Pilz are designed to provide efficiency in its operations and also enhance productivity by preventing interruptions to production as it interlocks gates securely until machine movements that may pose danger to the operator have stopped moving. The two innovative solutions are also environmentally friendly with low operation costs as they are energy efficient while offering advanced safety device diagnostic (SDD) options making it easy for maintenance engineers and operators to detect faults and service the devices. Equipped with an RFID safety switch that has coding options (coded, fully coded, and uniquely coded), the safety solutions protect the device from manipulation and allow for a series connection that reduces wiring, which in turn makes commissioning easy. The latching force can be rapidly and easily modified in stages, depending on the specific plant and the size of the safety gate, using the optional RFID tags. Therefore, the design and installation phases will have more freedom thanks to this intelligent safety locking system.  The two new Pilz safety locking devices can be used in packaging, food and beverage, and pharmaceutical industries where high levels of hygiene are required since they have IP67 (IP6K9K) protection and some variants made of stainless steel. Reliable safety gate management from Pilz can also be used in paper processing industries and machine tools due to their flexibility and robustness.  As the demand for efficient and affordable technology in safety gate systems keeps on increasing over time, new solutions are emerging to cater to these changing industrial needs to offer efficiency. The new safety locking devices from Pilz, the PSENmlock mini and the PSENslock 2, are some of the advancements that aim to offer efficiency in terms of enhancing productivity with their energy-efficient, reliable, and compact designs that meet the highest safety standards. 