Omron Unveils PMAC Platform Additions for Precision Manufacturing Control Omron announces the expansion of their Programmable Multi-Axis Control (PMAC) series controllers to include four new product lines for high-speed motion processes. Omron has added four new industrial controllers to their PMAC platform. Constantly looking for the next way to innovate in the manufacturing space, each of these new controllers represents a challenge that has been met with a new solution. The latest additions include a laser controller, expandable 4- and 5-axis controllers, and a PMW controller.  Omron’s popular Programmable Multi-Axis Control (PMAC) platform is a versatile automation system that allows for precise motion control in up to five axes. They are used in a wide variety of industries, most notably semiconductor manufacturing, laser cutting, sealant and adhesive dispensing, and many other applications. The PMAC controllers are capable of being programmed in ANSI C or G-code, making them robust and compatible with many third-party systems. They can be DIN rail mounted, making them easy to integrate with existing control system hardware. The newest additions to the PMAC platform include the CK5M, the CK3M module for laser axes, the CK3C, and the CK3A.  The next-gen CK5M controller module is capable of performing motions on five axes at 25 µs refresh rates, increasing speed and motion precision. With built-in EtherCAT and Ethernet ports, it easily integrates with third-party robotics systems, controllers, and sensors.    The CK3M series controllers are designed to work with laser systems. They can be used to turn lasers on and off and direct mirrors in three dimensions at high speed during laser cutting operations. Furthermore, they can be linked with multiple heads, minimizing head misalignment and increasing the accuracy of cuts.    The CK3C has an integrated 4-axis controller, expandable to include an additional eight local channels (2x 4-axis control) and another eight channels over EtherCAT (2x more 4-axis controls). The controller can poll servos every 50 microseconds, making it a good entry point into the multi-axis control space.    Pulse width modulation (PWM) is a popular way to control motion without having to open and close a relay many times over. The CK3A is a PWM controller capable of adjusting the amount of energy sent to a servo by modifying the pulse, as opposed to using a typical on/off switch or by varying the output voltage. This means robotic motion will be much more smooth, making it suitable for transporting delicate parts. Combined with the PMAC platform’s ability to ‘look ahead’ with a closed-loop control system, this CK3A module is an attractive alternative to budget controllers.    The latest modules in the Omron PMAC series add some new capabilities to the platform. They offer increased speed in control while maintaining the ability to interface existing and third-party hardware over standard protocols, such as EtherCAT or Ethernet. Programming is standardized through G-Code and ANSI C, also adding to the compatibility with other systems. Due to the flexibility and the increased speed, the newest PMAC series is expected to see its strongest use in high-speed, high-precision applications such as semiconductor sorting and laser or water jet cutting. 