Monitoring Machines in Real-time: Advancements From IMAGO, FLIR, and Schneider The latest advancements in vision and sensing technology allow engineers to monitor for signs of failure more naturally. Several recent standouts include IMAGO, FLIR, and Schneider Electric. Condition monitoring is a process of tracking key operating parameters in your process and equipment, ensuring that any signs of failure, such as vibration, heat, and noise, can aid in preventing unplanned downtime. But, in typical engineering fashion, the limits of sensors are being pressed; how can we gain even more actionable insights about hardware changes that can predict failures? Perhaps the most simple answer is to rely on the same input methods used by people for millennia–the senses of sight and sound!    The Industrial DashCam 1 000 from IMAGO is a unique solution for continuous monitoring of facility machinery and operations in real time. This high-resolution camera allows for remote monitoring and improved maintenance planning. One of the key features of IMAGO’s Industrial DashCam 1 000 is its ability to monitor facility equipment and machine operating status in real time. Its high-resolution video capture function can keep track of the most speedy machine operations, recording as many as 1,000 frames per second. Machine operators and maintenance teams can use the video footage for hands-off remote monitoring of machines/equipment and conducting advanced maintenance planning, which helps to avoid unwanted downtime. Another attractive aspect of the DashCam 1 000 is data management. It can capture video clips of a maximum of 20 seconds in length and save them in standard video format. Implementing a ring buffer system guarantees that only pertinent information surrounding certain trigger inputs is gathered, avoiding unnecessary data build-up that would require time-consuming processing. Users need only a reliable PC to access the camera, play back videos, and even view videos in slow motion to catch the finer details of machine/equipment operations. With the DashCam 1000, engineers can take precautionary steps to extend the longevity of their machines and equipment, maintain operational performance and productivity, and lower maintenance costs.  FLIR, a subsidiary of Teledyne Technologies, develops and supplies smart sensing solutions for industrial and defense applications. Aside from visual data captured through cameras and sensors, sound is another crucial measure for monitoring machine and equipment health in industrial environments. Small gas leaks in industrial facilities are common and a cause of concern. If left undetected, a small gas leak could lead to a harmful explosion or dangerous fume releases, harming nearby personnel. With FLIR’s Si124 family of acoustic imagers, operators can locate the smallest of air leaks and benefit from improved mobility. The Si124, Si124-PD, and Si124-LD feature a broadened acoustic imaging range of 2 kHz to 65 kHz and a frequency range of 36 kHz to 65 kHz for improved sound detection. These features enable condition monitoring experts to detect air leaks or discharge nearby.    FLIR’s acoustic imagers feature one-handed operation for safety and come with a carrying case with four integrated batteries, offering 8 hours of use. Users can also opt for the tethered battery model. The Si124 camera has a 124-microphone setup for accurate sound wave identification and recording, yielding a comprehensive acoustic image. For convenience, this image is layered on a visible camera image. The Si124 can detect problems in electrical, mechanical, compressor, and vacuum systems up to ten times faster than conventional inspection methods.  AVEVA developed the Vision AI Assistant and announced its launch in November 2021. Since this time, Schneider has completed its acquisition of AVEVA, endeavoring to preserve the latter company’s business autonomy and serving as a platform for its technological innovations. As part of the new offering from Schneider Electric, machine operators and technicians can now integrate condition monitoring camera feeds with the AVEVA Vision AI Assistant, as well as create and instruct analytical models for detecting anomalies and identifying discrete or binary states. Operators can view anomaly scores in AVEVA Insight and targeted alerts highlighting important asset components requiring maintenance. At Schneider’s own Smart factory in Lexington, the AVEVA Vision AI Assistant was put to the test, helping to identify chain breaks and deformities in the overhead conveyor line. It helped avoid 12 hours of plant-wide downtime over the test period, producing an annual impact of $120,000. 