Dunkermotoren Expands MCP Portfolio: BG 45 Motor With Smart Control Technology Dunkermotoren has recently added a new product to the motor control platform (MCP) with the new BG 45 dPro, featuring built-in digital and analog I/O and smarter control technology. Even though motors have existed since long before digital automation and control systems, the driving technology behind these motors is constantly improving, with innovative solutions being introduced to tackle the growing industrial need for precise motion control. Dunkermotoren, a company brand under AMETEK, has continued to showcase its dedication to providing innovative solutions in its motor control platform (MCP) which was introduced in 2018 and has since been used around the world to enhance the capabilities of smart BG motors. The company has recently added the new BG 45 dPro brushless DC (BLDC) motor to this growing portfolio, boasting features that make it stand out from its competition in the market.    This latest addition to the BG series has a compact design with a measure of only 46 mm, and like its predecessors in the series, the BG 45 dPro offers seamless integration of control electronics into its housing. In terms of power (output power compared to input voltage), the new motor is stated to surpass other motors in the series, delivering up to 110 W of continuous power resulting in a 4,720 RPM speed rating, boosting performance for relatively low-power applications.  Dunkermotoren's BG 45 dPro is designed with different industrial needs in mind, as it can be highly configured and paired with systems to meet these needs in industries like intralogistics, packaging, electronics, medical technology, and semiconductor industries. The new motor is flexible and adaptable, designed to withstand harsh environmental conditions with its protection rating of up to IP65, giving it a wide range of applications.  One of the most interesting characteristics of the BG 45 dPro is the built-in I/O that has digital and analog capabilities allowing for stand-alone operations. Control can also be implemented through CANopen and has an integrated 4Q servo controller. Equipped with an internal magnetic encoder that has a resolution of 4096 counts per rev, the BG 45 dPro offers high levels of position accuracy and perfect control characteristics. To further boost the motor's precision, it is equipped with field-oriented control (FOC) that also makes it efficient in controlling current, position, and speed in the various drive modes that are present in the MCP platform. When it comes to interface capabilities, the BG 45 dPro provides a wide range of options able to work with field buses like CANopen, RS-485, and Modbus protocols. The new motor can be configured for networks of industrial PROFINET, EtherCAT, or Ethernet/IP. To ensure that the motor blends in with various control systems and also for easy commissioning, it is equipped with the Drive Assistant 5 configuration tool and a 15-pin Hybrid connector that makes installation easy.    With many factories racing to equip their processes with data-intensive Industry 4.0 technologies, the use of smart systems and industrial Internet of things (IIoT) is seen in a wide range of industrial spectrum, forcing product manufacturers to work towards implementing such systems in their product line-up. The BG 45 dPro comes well-prepared for Industry 4.0 use, including the introduction of nexofox MotionCode, allowing it to achieve advanced functionalities like predictive maintenance, alarms, condition monitoring, and messaging. Recognizing the need for safe operations, all Ethernet variants of the BG 45 dPro are equipped with a safe torque off (STO) feature, which is available as an option for the CANopen variants. The STO feature is beneficial in streamlining restart processes as it ensures that the motor can set torque-free without interrupting the logic voltage. The BG 45 dPro also has UL certification, and with its impressive features, it is intended to lead the market as the go-to choice for many industries that want to push the boundaries of what motors can achieve. 