Beckhoff Unveils Next-Gen C6040 IPC: Optimizing AI, Motion, and HMI Beckhoff has added the C6040-0090 line of IPC controllers, featuring the next generation of Intel multi-core processors to upgrade motion, vision, AI, and SCADA applications. Beckhoff has extended its C6040 series of compact industrial controllers to include the 12th and 13th generations of processors. The latest models come equipped with Intel Core i7 and i9 processors, capable of running multiple cores to increase the speed and responsiveness of decision-making and control. These ruggedized industrial computers are designed to improve the performance of automation systems in manufacturing operations across many industries. These controllers are expected to hit the market in December 2023.  The Beckoff C6040 series controllers are known for their compact size (132 mm x 202 mm x 76 mm), making them ideal for upgrading existing robotics systems which often have limited space. Even with the small footprint, these controllers are able to stay cool through the use of an efficient power supply and clever heat dissipation design. The controllers are designed on one board, which helps keep the size, cost, and complexity to a minimum. With the one-board design, there are no daughterboards to loosen during the vibration found in a typical manufacturing plant. The single board also means reduced troubleshooting or maintenance required.    Ruggedly constructed and built with the manufacturing environment in mind, these compact controllers can be installed in tight spaces using many common mounting schemes. They are DIN rail capable and have several ways to mount the cabling in an organized fashion.  The newest members of the C6040 line, the C6040-0090 controllers, feature the latest innovations in multicore processing. Equipped with 12th or 13th gen Intel Core i7 or i9 processors, these controllers can handle even more processes at a time, speeding up performance significantly. Depending on the specific model, there are up to 24 cores available (TC3 - 81, featuring an i9). This latest generation of Intel processors features a new, hybrid architecture that adds four cores to each i7 and eight cores to each i9 processor, as compared to previous models. In general, these systems are designed for high-performance, single-thread processing, but multithreading is possible. Furthermore, the clock speed for each core can be set separately, adding flexibility to what is possible with these controllers.    Designed for the manufacturing industry as a whole, the Beckhoff C6040-0090 industrial computers are for increased performance, meaning faster speed motion is possible. Some of the most CPU-intensive applications, such as multi-axis robotic control, machine vision, and complex human-machine interfaces (HMIs) will benefit from the multiple cores and quicker cycle times offered by the C6040-0090 controllers. Shaving a few seconds off an assembly operation can mean increasing throughput drastically. A faster, more capable controller, such as the C6040-0090 can make decisions much more quickly, leading to safer, faster operation. Robotic motion can be performed more quickly, as the calculations required and collision detection algorithms happen more quickly as well.  Any time there are faster industrial computers with more cores for reducing processing time, there are numerous industrial applications. This next generation of C6040 controllers from Beckhoff will find use in those industries that rely on multi-axis robotic motion and advanced AI applications. The increased performance will benefit assembly, picking, packing, raw materials handling, transportation, and other time-consuming activities. 