New Ethernet I/O Modules From Acromag Promise Simple Expandability Acromag has recently released the latest NT2300 Series of Ethernet I/O modules for use in industrial applications, giving customers access to up to 32 analog outputs from a single IP address. Acromag, a control device manufacturer, has recently announced the addition of two Ethernet remote output modules: the new NT2300 Series. These modules will be the latest addition to their Busworks® NT Series of products. They are designed specifically for use in industrial settings and give customers access to an easy-to-use modular Ethernet I/O module.  The units are designed to accurately control analog current or voltage output signals wherever needed. They have the ability to give customers a high-density solution for offering voltage or current levels for monitors, displays, and other devices. Each unit has eight current or voltage outputs with network expansion allowing up to 32 outputs on a single IP address.    The modules provide 16-bit D/A converters that take in digital signals and turn them into true analog control for different applications (as opposed to common PWM simulation of analog voltage).  The NT2310 is capable of providing an output signal that ranges from a selectable 0-20 mA or 4-20 mA output signal, giving users the ability to customize the unit for specific voltage uses. The NT2320 offers users a customizable voltage range where needed. Voltage ranges for the NT2320 include ±5, ±10, 0-5, or 0-10 voltage output levels, which is common for most industrial controllers.  NTE models feature dual RJ45 ports to allow for connection to a computer and a web server. Communication is possible with the use of Modbus TCP/IP or Ethernet/IP protocols and can be selected in the field using a web browser. This gives users a practical approach for connecting to the device during initial setup and for later maintenance use. The devices have multicast capability and support conditional logic. Acromag’s i2o® peer-to-peer communication technology can also be used for direct data transfer between modules. This means that the modules can communicate without the need for a host or server and can function as a network client.  Acromag kept control cabinet space savings in mind in the design process providing the units with DIN rail mounting options. A DIN rail bus is available that can be used to expand the modules. Up to three NTX expansion modules to be connected to allow for more I/O connection possibilities. Each module uses only 25 mm of DIN rail, saving valuable cabinet real estate for other uses.    Industrial environments can be hazardous to electrical devices, but Acromag has taken steps to ensure the NT2300 series Ethernet I/O modules will survive in most industrial environments. The devices have hazardous location approvals that include an immunity to the challenges of high noise. They also include a wide temperature range of -40 to 70 °C for even the most extreme locations.  Acromag specializes in measurement and control devices for an international market developing and manufacturing products for many industries. They have been in business for over 60 years and manufacture many different I/O products, including: Acromag takes great pride in creating products that are reliable and easy to use for their large customer base. 