New PFM to Analog Output Converters Provide Easy Signal Integration Banner Engineering has recently released the new R45C PFM to analog signal converter that can be easily installed into systems to allow seamless communication between devices. Banner Engineering, a global leader in its innovative solutions in the industrial world, has recently announced its latest product, the R45C PFM signal converter, which receives a pulse frequency modulated (PFM) input and turns it into a true analog current (4-20 mA) output. Designed to bridge the gap between analog and digital control systems that use these types of PFM signals, the R45C promises smooth operation to control engineers across the globe.    PFM is versatile in data transmission, allowing it to gain a global presence as it modulates the frequency of pulse signals, as contrasted to the more familiar pulse width modulation (PWM), which varies the width of the signal pulses. This approach of converting pulse signals makes the transmission of signals easier in a format that allows the conversion to analog signals when required.  The R45C converter is made for durability in harsh work environments, being rated at IP65, IP67, and IP68. The converter is also equipped with indicator LEDs that make status indications easily noticeable by operators. The user-friendly green and amber status lights reduce the possibility of errors in its operation. When it comes to installation, the R45C PFM to analog converter can be directly connected to sensors at any point in line, making it flexible and easy to use. In a bid to reduce the hassle of individual wiring, the converter also features two 4-pin M12 female quick disconnects and a 5-pin M12 male quick disconnect to provide a simple, direct installation process.  The primary purpose of the R45C is to receive signals in a PFM format, such as those generated by the output stage of the Q5X series of photoelectric sensors (also from Banner). The converter will output a true analog signal, allowing these sensors to be more easily integrated with control systems that cannot natively adapt to PFM signal formats.  Banner Engineering has long asserted a commitment to providing innovative solutions to cope with the increasing demand for effective industrial devices in this modern age of data accessibility. The R45C PFM to analog converter is another one of the many innovative solutions from Banner that proves this commitment. With the increasing industrial demand for an efficient transmission between analog and digital data, engineers as opting for solutions that enhance their operation in terms of precision and control. With Banner's R45C converter, many evolving industrial needs can be met, giving engineers a valuable solution for difficult signal conversion situations. 