Carlo Gavazzi’s New DCT1 Energy Meter for Fast EV Chargers To meet the rising challenge of rapid, efficient EV charging, Carlo Gavazzi has recently introduced the DCT1, a new energy metering device for fast-charging stations. To meet the current demand for better, more reliable electric vehicle (EV) charging, fast and more efficient charging systems are beginning to see daylight for the first time. The technology is maturing fast, and Carlo Gavazzi, a company that is known for its EV transportation solutions, has joined the fray with the release of its new DCT1 Series DC Energy Meter. According to Carlo Gavazzi, the DCT1 Series is designed to meet the increasing demand for EV DC charging systems that are as fast as they are accurate and ensure customers pay only for what they put into their EV’s “tank.”    Automation and controls for EV charging systems demand simplicity, flexibility, and compactness. With a housing size of 90 mm x 115 mm x 60 mm, the company says its energy meter’s compact design and standard mounting technology support simple, flexible applications.    Designed for global markets, the DCT1 is ready for vehicle-to-grid (V2G) applications encompassing cULus certification, NMi evaluation certificate for Eichrecht approval under IEC 62053-41, IEC 62052-31, IEC 62052-11, and VDE-AR-E 2418-3-100 Annex A. Carlo Gavazzi says all of these certifications makes its bi-directional kWh meter fall within the calibration and cybersecurity requirements of Germany, Europe, and the U.S. Because calibration is done by internal temperature sensors, accuracy can be met for any condition.  Carlo Gavazzi’s new DCT1 metering system offers secure and signed data transmission between the controller and the DCT1 meter. Thanks to its multi-protocol design, the device supports Modbus RTU and SML and can adapt to different charge controllers. To meet EVSE certification requirements, the energy metering system has a 0.0001 kWh energy resolution as a result of its fast serial data refresh. To prevent unintended access or tampering, the DCT1 meter is designed with a sealed, tamper-proof protection with a cover bracket protecting the communications and measuring terminals.  Featuring all relevant global certifications, Carlo Gavazzi's DCT1 DC metering system is an economical go-to choice for accurate fast EV charging metering. As the evolution of EV charging continues, innovative solutions like Carlo Gavazzi’s DCT1 will surely make a name for itself, serving the rise of the EV market with its flexibility, accuracy, and compact design. 