OnLogic Joins Inductive Automation’s Partner Program As an Inductive Automation Alliance Partner Program member, OnLogic’s hardware offerings are now more accessible to Ignition software users. OnLogic has announced its onboarding of the Inductive Automation Alliance Partner Program (IAAPP). OnLogic is part of a coalition of several companies, including cloud services, hardware, software, and networking solutions, with the vision of providing support for businesses leveraging the Ignition platform by Inductive Automation. OnLogic is a globally recognized manufacturer of industrial computers that facilitate the Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) and similar high-fidelity applications. Inductive Automation specializes in the development and deployment of sophisticated software for helping businesses commence and progress with their digital transformation journeys.  The Ignition platform is a universal system integration tool used to develop and oversee supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA), human-machine interface (HMI), and IoT systems for various industries such as water treatment, energy, and manufacturing. Control engineers can use Ignition to connect to a variety of industrial equipment and databases through its powerful data integration features and cross-platform compatibility. Data logging, real-time visualization, and alarm management are excellent strengths of Ignition, enabling effective tracking and oversight of industrial processes. Ignition also offers online access for maintenance and problem-solving and allows scripting and modification, permitting engineers to adapt the software to particular needs. Offering affordable licensing, Ignition is a useful tool for increasing productivity and security in industrial environments.   Inductive Automation offers advice on hardware testing to help guarantee systems are Ignition-Ready to OnLogic and other Alliance Program participants, saving users valuable time when adopting automation solutions. Before the advent of the IAAPP, OnLogic was an affiliate of the now-discontinued Ignition Onboard Programme. From OnLogic’s side comes a tranche of durable and powerful computer technologies and components for edge and IoT applications. Some of the company’s hardware solutions include rackmount, rugged, panel, fanned and unfanned PCs, motherboards, and CPUs. OnLogic’s IGN700 10th-gen Industrial Edge mini-PC serves as an example of the utility of the IAAPP. The PC features an Intel 10th Generation Comet Lake Core processor and can hold up to 64 gigabytes of memory. The compact device also has dual solid-state drive slots and visual processing unit (VPU) accelerators (e.g. Google Coral and Intel Movidius). A VPU accelerator speeds up deep learning model training. This technology is commonly used for image recognition, object detection, and computer vision applications.    The IGN700 is Ignition software certified, enabling it to receive alerts, create HMIs in dynamic SCADA environments, communicate with programmable logic controllers, and log historical data. Other hardware solutions like the IGN700 (that used to come with Ignition software preinstalled) have been discontinued. This lets users select and merge their desired hardware solution with a suitable Ignition license. In support of the community, OnLogic has presented the platform at the recent Ignition Community Conference, where participants could watch a demonstration of how OnLogic hardware might be used with SCADA by utilizing Ignition software.  For industrial and control professionals using Ignition, improved connectivity to OnLogic's hardware solutions can improve interoperability, performance optimization, dependability, and scalability—all of which are essential for creating and implementing reliable industrial automation solutions. Ultimately, all involved hope the collaboration will lead to more practical and efficient digital transformation solutions for manufacturing and industrial enterprises. 