Priming its Solar Test and Measurement Offerings to Utilities, Fluke Acquires Solmetric With the acquisition of Solmetric, Fluke positions itself to become a leader in industrial and solar (PV) test and measurement solutions. Recently, the Fluke Corporation informed customers and stakeholders of its recent acquisition of Solmetric, a solar test and measurement equipment manufacturer. Exhibiting a commitment to alternative energy generation, Fluke was especially interested in Solmetric’s innovative photovoltaic (PV) analyzer product line, used broadly by solar engineers to evaluate, commission, maintain, and troubleshoot PV systems.    Test and measurement are crucial for ensuring the productivity and security of industrial systems, and this certainly includes photovoltaic panels and modules. According to Transparency Market Research, demand for solar power technology is growing in general, which is sparking a corresponding demand for test and measurement instrumentation to support the efficiency and optimization of this important source of electric power generation. For industrial and electrical engineers, tools that accurately collect critical operating and functional data are essential for quality assurance, compliance, safety, and making faster data-driven decisions in support of business and operating goals.  One technology that will certainly be leveraged by the new Fluke acquisition is Solmetric’s industry-leading PV Analyzer I-V (current-voltage) curve tracer. A PV analyzer is commonly used to determine and prove the efficiency of solar panels and other photovoltaic devices. To do this, the instrument generates I-V curves under various circumstances (such as varying temperatures, loads, or solar levels) which helps analysts and engineers assess how well the device converts solar energy into electricity.    PV analyzers are crucial for finding defects or problems in solar cells, modules, and panels. By looking at the characteristics of I-V curves, engineers can find shading issues, cell degradation, and other electrical flaws that might hinder generating efficiency. Understandably, this data is also an essential aid to diagnostics, system maintenance, and reliability. Solmetric provides solar engineers with I-V curve tracing capabilities up to 1500 volts combined with integrated PV performance modeling. Equipped with innovative wireless environmental monitoring technology, Solmetric’s PVA-1500HE PV Analyzer Kit streamlines the evaluation of solar power systems by rapidly recording I-V and P-V curves and then comparing them to projected performance (in light of real-time temperature and irradiance conditions). The devices deliver immediate results visibility, as well as data accuracy and security during testing. Solmetric says the device’s capacity to measure strings of up to 30 amps is another one of its primary advantages, enabling system engineers to test several strings simultaneously. Solmetric notes the PVA-1500HE provides a stand-out option for technicians measuring high-efficiency solar panels and modules with precision, including those with efficiencies higher than 19%. This valuable tool for solar engineers delivers immediate and thorough performance evaluation metrics, all of which serve to increase the dependability of photovoltaic systems. Ruggedized, the PVA-1500HE is ready for field duty and designed to function reliably and accurately, regardless of the environment.  Ultimately, Fluke’s acquisition of Solmetric makes strategic sense as an effort to broaden the company’s portfolio of products, addressing an important and growing global market for solar-powered energy solutions. Moving forward, Solmetric’s technologies are likely to receive greater exposure to the energy industry through Fluke’s global distribution channels. 