Banner Introduces Modular TL70 Basic Tower Lights for High-Visibility Alerting Banner’s new TL70 Basic tower lights offer cost-effective machine status indication with a wide array of tower configurability, bright colors, and audible alert options. Banner Engineering, one of the leading automation and sensing technology solution providers, recently announced the availability of its new TL70 Basic Tower Lights. Modular and stackable, the 70-mm lamps are designed to deliver high-visibility equipment status alerting to virtually any machine. Offering a full range of color and mounting options, the TL70 tower light also offers a simple, economic status indication solution for manufacturing and processing systems and equipment.   Banner’s TL70 lamps come in seven different colors: white, green, blue, yellow, orange, violet, and red. Although system designers can order individual modules to create their own tower of indicators, Banner offers pre-assembled towers that host four or five color segments. Because each segment has its own controller, installation and configuration are simplified. Banner says each lamp features a unique pin-to-position M12 connector that assures industrial-strength connections between each module in the stack.  Equipped to emit an audible alarm as high as 104 dB, the lamps can sound the alert over even the loudest industrial environments. Further, lamp lenses are made of a translucent material that helps eliminate false indications when the lamp is off but then clears and brightens to the specified color. Available with steady or flash animation options, Banner's TL70 Basic Tower Lights come with an IP65 rating and are appropriate for harsh industrial applications.  According to Banner, to improve visibility and response time, a stack of TL70 Basic Tower Lights can be installed virtually anywhere critical machine status must be unambiguously indicated and announced to all in the vicinity. Whether it's monitoring a complex manufacturing line, overseeing a busy loading dock, or managing automated equipment, the lamps can be installed to provide real-time status indications when and where they're needed.  Industrial tower lights are essential to machine control and industrial safety. Banner’s TL70 new Basic Tower Lights answer that call in an economical and easy-to-configure modular system that supports a nearly universal array of applications. 