Data From the Edge: Embedded Edge Compute Module From Rockwell Automation Rockwell Automation introduces a new family of edge computing modules, ready for Allen-Bradley control networks and Industry 4.0 control innovation. Allen-Bradley and Rockwell Automation are jumping into the IoT world with a new line of edge compute modules. Essentially, these are microcontrollers that have access to the ControlLogix backplane, allowing programmers to collect and analyze data on the machine instead of using protocols that must exchange data with far-off servers on extended networks. Although PLCs have used computer hardware internally for decades, those data processors operate quite differently than the computers most in the IT and commercial world find familiar. For example, the standard way to get information or variable data from an Allen-Bradley PLC on a control network is to use an open protocol such as OPC UA, Ethernet TCP/IP, or FactoryTalk transaction manager. Opting for one or more of these protocols often requires installing and configuring special connectivity software on servers located remotely from the PLCs they control. While this network and control architecture is common, it’s proving less able to support advanced enterprise-wide industry 4.0-style innovation. Seeking control software solutions with enhanced processing capabilities, Rockwell Automation asserts that automation control engineers are looking for better access to critical data from systems and devices on the periphery of their control networks, and having that access right at the edge where the machines and the data are located. Aiming to put computing power where it’s needed most, Rockwell Automation's Embedded Edge Compute Module provides data collection, analytics, and custom application building, all within an embedded module perfect for control solutions at the network’s edge.  Edge computing is defined as a computer that collects, stores, and analyzes data at the edge of an enterprise network. It could be the edge of a machine network or the entire organization’s IT network before data is passed to the cloud for storage. Edge computing and serving devices can range from a small fanless industrial PC installed in an assembly line control cabinet to a rack-mounted enterprise-class server with multiple virtualizations serving multiple machines.    According to Rockwell Automation, these edge compute modules are designed to work with the ControlLogix family of PLC CPUs and come as in-cabinet (VersaView 5000 Industrial Computer), in-chassis (ControlLogix), or in-controller (CompactLogix) configurations. All device configurations include either a Windows 10 IoT or Linux operating system and come equipped with integrated display ports that connect to a high-definition VersaView monitor. Both OS configurations support IoT protocols such as MQTT and OPC UA. Offering broad applicability, the edge compute modules open up new avenues of control innovation for Allen-Bradley automation users. Up until now, accessing Allen-Bradley PLC data required costly hardware, hours of configuration, and servers located in close proximity to the equipment.  Edge Compute Modules, notes Rockwell Automation, offer new flexibility to create custom applications within the Windows 10 IoT Enterprise or Linux operating systems. Users can also take advantage of several off-the-shelf applications to enhance and optimize automation systems. With Edge Compute Modules, automation and control engineers and machine builders can develop their own efficient applications and deploy data-processing power, saving time by having a single deployment that can be reused on multiple projects. With the new Embedded Edge Compute Modules, Rockwell Automation helps system designers introduce more powerful control data handling and management tools at the point of control. With greater computing power at the equipment-facing edge of the network, the enterprise can access data in real time and gain true visibility into manufacturing and processing operations. Equipped with more actionable data in real time users can enhance productivity, improve quality, and drive operational excellence. All of this, explains Rockwell Automation, will help the enterprise “move from reactive to proactive decision-making by harnessing the power of computer vision and analytics in a smart manufacturing environment.” 