Bosch Rexroth Training Center Preparing Next Generation for Hydraulic Control Innovation Bosch Rexroth’s Hydraulic Training Center dedicates 4,000 sq. ft. specifically to train state-of-the-industry hydraulic motion and control technology skills. Bosch Rexroth, known for its hydraulic motion control solutions, recently opened a new 4,000-sq. ft training center in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania. Equipped with state-of-the-art systems, the facility leverages tremendous corporate resources, as well as Bosch Rexroth’s hydraulics expertise to deliver a transformational industrial training experience focused solely on hydraulics.   According to Bosch Rexroth, the center offers much more than similar technically oriented educational institutions because of its hands-on curriculum that centers on skills now in high demand by industry. Boasting three training stations, the facility features well-equipped classrooms, conference spaces, as well as a lounge area for all-important networking. Few if any details were spared to support the mission of the center which is to fill the industry’s skills gap and provide a great point of entry for the next generation of students to learn about this fundamentally important control and automation technology.  Bosch's choice to make hydraulics the primary focus of its training curricula was deliberate because most vocational, technical training centers, it says, tend to put hydraulics last relative to other more “advanced” control technologies. Because of Bosch Rexroth's commitment to bridging the industry’s skills gap, it felt the focus and the investment was warranted given the technology’s place in industrial automation and control.    Hydraulics are everywhere making things move, dig, lift, push, pull, pump, press, cut, swing, plow, and more. Hydraulics play such an important role in the actuation of such a wide range of machinery, notes Bosch Rexroth, understanding how the various components interrelate and function is extremely important to sustaining broad areas of commerce and industry.  According to Phil West, Bosch Rexroth’s Industrial Hydraulics Training Manager, the new facility’s training offering is aimed at sharing valuable insights and institutional knowledge in a collegial atmosphere amongst professionals. Designed with both students exploring careers in hydraulics as well as seasoned professionals seeking to top up their skills, the center provides the opportunity to immerse oneself deeply in hydraulic fluid! Bosch Rexroth says the curriculum is framed to prepare students for future roles in the hydraulic industry. Offering standardized training the center’s expert instructors will cover subjects like hydraulic control technology, motors and drives, and primary systems, among other topics, as well as practical approaches to understanding and designing hydraulically controlled systems. Bosch Rexroth says the systems they use for training have open interfaces and programming languages following international standards. Courses on offer include; Proportional Hydraulics, Design Consideration for Industrial Hydraulics, Basic Hydraulics, Hydraulic Setup, Commissioning and Maintenance, and Hydraulic Pump/ Motor Control.  With the current technology dominated by advanced electronic control systems, Bosch Rexroth’s decision to make the investment and nurture this specific skill set is notable. Does this set an example for others in the control and automation space? Of course, it does, and because of its specific focus, it provides a model for the training of very specific skill sets required for the advanced control and automation technologies emerging now and in the not-too-distant future. Regardless in the coming years, the need for skilled industrial professionals will continue to leap with each jump in technological advancement. Scheduled to offer classes all year long with the first session starting in January 2024, Bosch Rexroth encourages interested students and organizations to explore the schedule and sign up to attend the sessions best suited to their journey in hydraulics. 