Banner’s New S15C Pressure Sensors Banners S15C pressure sensors give operators the ability to read both air and liquid pressure while providing signals for most major communication protocols. Banner Engineering recently released its latest series of pressure sensors. Dubbed the S15C, the new sensors are off-the-shelf ready for industry 4.0 and IIoT applications. According to Banner, the new devices are available with different sensor communication options if used in conjunction with one of the company’s digital Snap Signal devices. Capable of reading pressures up to 5,000 psi for high-pressure applications, the sensors are available for reading different pressure ranges. Depending on the model, the sensors can read anywhere from 15 psi to a maximum of 5,000 psi to fit specific applications.    Besides pressure reading differentiation, the sensors can be broken out into two different model groups, the PGPS, and the PGPC model groups. The PGPS features a stainless steel cell which is ideal for measuring liquid pressures. Banner says there are six different pressure range models available within the stainless steel models. The PGPC consists of a ceramic cell that is best suited for use with reading gas pressures and only one model is available to read all pressures.  All of the sensors, regardless of model or model group, deliver a 4mA-20mA analog output reading via an M12 4-pin male quick disconnect connector. All models fit into a 1/4" Male NPT fitting to analyze whatever medium and pressure they have been selected for. For specifiers who want to convert the analog output into a digital signal, one of Banner’s Snap Signal converters can be used in conjunction with the sensor to create a digital output. When the pressure sensors are used in conjunction with the Modbus converters a pre-scaled value is available making integration smoother and less time-consuming.  Banner explains the S15C pressure sensors can be easily integrated into the plant's digital infrastructure for IIoT connectivity through the use of Banner's Digital Converters and Snap Signal. The digital converters allow users to take the M12 signal from the sensor and convert it into a unified protocol. This means that manufacturers can digitize analog signals to be sent as any of the major protocols like: This gives the system the ability to directly communicate with an automated cell control system whether it's a SCADA, PLC, HMI, or cloud platform. Customers can now read pressure ranges from 15-5000 psi depending on application with the use of one of Banner’s new S15C pressure sensors. The sensors are compatible with Snap Signal, Banner’s digital converter lineup. Via snap signal users gain the ability to easily integrate the analog signal provided by the sensor into a digital signal for use in cloud platforms, PLCs, HMIs, or SCADA control systems. The pressure sensors are compatible with both air and liquid measurement meaning they can be used for many different applications. 