SMC Adds Higher-Flow 4-Port Solenoid Valve Cassette Manifolds to SJ Series Offering the highest flow rates in its lineup, the SJ3000A and SJ4000 offer 1.4 and 4.9 times greater flow rates respectively. Automators commonly use pneumatic valves to control the motion of pneumatic cylinders or other pneumatic devices. A valve manifold is a device that combines multiple valves into one device. These manifolds typically have fieldbus technology that allows control systems to individually address each valve. SMC, known for its pneumatic component expertise, offers the SJX000 series of four and five-port solenoid valve cassette-type manifolds. Offering specification flexibility, SMC’s SJ series allows system designers to combine different-sized valves into a single manifold. This design feature supports simultaneous control of different-sized pneumatic devices using the same manifold. Recently SMC added to the SJ Series product line by releasing two new high-flow 4-Port Solenoid Valve cassette-type manifolds: the SJ3000A And SJ4000.    Sizing the correct pneumatic valve is an important step in the design process. If a smaller valve is chosen flow can be restricted will result in a large pressure drop and less flow to the downstream device. If the valve is too big the control system will not be able to provide adequate control of the downstream device. To support the application of their devices, SMC offers a wide variety of different-sized valves that are compatible with the SJ series manifold. The new SJ3000A is a four-port valve with an LED red and green indicator and a card edge connector that allows the device to be in the same manifold as smaller or lower-flow valves. Compact, the SJ3000A is 10 mm wide by 40 mm high with an internal flow rate of 181L/min, providing a 1.4 times increase in flow rate compared to the SJ3000. The SJ4000 offers similar indicator and connector features as the SJ3000A but with an even higher flow rate. Compared to the SJ3000 the SJ4000 has 4.9 times the flow rate at 625 L/min with an overall width of 15mm and 50mm height. The SJ4000 is also a four-port valve that can be mounted in the same manifold as low-flow valves.  Response time is the reaction time of the valve when the voltage on the threshold is reached, both valves have a 30ms response time for the 4-position dual 3-port valve. A 2, 3, or 4-position valve can be chosen for either valve, and single, double, closed center, or exhaust center configurations can also be ordered as well. Both the SJ4000 and SJ3000 have options for angle or straight push-in connectors in 4 or 6-mm diameter or a threaded pipe connection can be ordered.  Pneumatic control valves are very useful in automation. Being able to consolidate all the pneumatic valves in one location and on one node of an industrial network can be very useful. A typical application for pneumatic manifolds and valves is on automated assembly equipment where a station needs to pick parts from a part feeder. A cylinder is used for horizontal and vertical motion, a final pneumatic gripper is used to grip the part. In situations where the station needs to lift heavy parts, the vertical cylinder might be larger than the other cylinders. By having a manifold where different-sized valves can co-exist within the same manifold machine build time can be reduced and integration or code debugging can also be reduced. 