Speak to Me: Festo Introduces Multi-Lingual CMMT-MP Servo Drives Leveraging modularity in both production and design, Festo’s new family of Multi-Protocol servo drives provides OEMs with productivity and cost advantages. Festo says the strategy behind its new family of servo drives is flexibility and multi-protocol support. Including the CMMT-ST-MP and CMMT-AS-MP, Festo says its drives speak fluent EtherNet/IP, EtherCAT, PROFINET, and Modbus TCP. Designed for flexible integrations, Festo explains Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) automation suppliers can benefit by leveraging the efficiencies consolidating to a single device and product family in their system and machine designs.  Because engineers no longer need to context-switch workflows or learn and support a multitude of different devices in varied design environments, system integrations, design, and specification processes become more efficient. Another advantage the multi-protocol CMMP family offers is Festo’s reduction to eight CMMT part numbers which bolsters the company’s ability to support servo drive specifiers. Essentially for Festo, that means fewer parts to inventory and fewer drives to manufacture and support. Machine builders welcome this move says Festo because servo drives remain in short supply with many lagging with long lead times. As a result, machine builders consolidating on CMMT MP drives can cost-effectively and more efficiently support their customers and respond to the North American market as it becomes more diversified by applying EtherNet/IP, EtherCAT, PROFINET, and Modbus TCP protocols. According to Festo machine builders also find that procurement and engineering productivity go up with its family of servo drives and the advantage of a "one-stop shop" for motors, drives, actuators, and accessories. Plus, Festo notes, configure one, you have configured them all!   The CMMT-ST-MP is the compact version of the 2 products, desirable for low-power requirements. It is 50% more compact than its CMMT-AS sibling and can perform positioning and movement operations from 150 W at 24 V DC up to 300 W at 48 V DC. When operating at the low-end power of 150 W, the ST does not require a power supply. Safety features include safe torque off and safe stop 1 time with compatible relay unit and circuitry.  The CMMT-AS-MP expands the protocol support of the already existing CMMT-AS. Although the form factor is not quite as compact as the CMMT-ST-MP, the drive is still a size leader in the compact drive market. Part of Festo’s core range the CMMT-AS-MP offers engineers broad applicability and adaptability. For example, the device is “universal” for PM-synchronous servo motors and capable of delivering up to 6000 W continuous power. Similarly, the drives offer precise torque, speed, and position control for point-to-point operations and interpolated motion. Servo drive, motor, and axis precautions are integrated via built-in functions for the device with shut-down/quick-stop capability. Direct integration through Fieldbus or PLC is also supported. Safety features include safe torque off, safe stop 1 with compatible relay unit and circuitry, safe brake control, and diagnostic outputs STA and SBA.   In an attempt to sweeten the deal, Festo offers a suite of peripheral devices to their servo drive technologies. With Festo's free online productivity tools including the Electric Motion Sizing and Handling Guide Online, machine builders can specify linear and multi-axis systems in minutes. Festo says its Automation Suite significantly shortens commissioning time. The tool incorporates Festo's CODESYS integrated development environment (IDE) for programming Festo modular controllers CPX-E-CEC. CMMT MP drives which are backwards compatible with legacy CMMT servo drives. 