Get a Grip: SCHUNK Introduces TENDO Silver Precision Toolholders Precision tool-holding solution features Schunk’s innovative hydraulic expansion technology. A new precision tool holder, TENDO Silver, is now available from Schunk, a company known for its precision tool clamping and gripping solutions. Introduced recently at EMO 2023, the TENDO Silver features the company’s innovative hydraulic expansion technology to precisely achieve and maintain uniform tool-holding forces that ultimately optimize metal-working operations.  According to Schunk, because of its price-to-performance ratio, the TENDO Silver is a “Door Opener” offering more tool-holding capability at a competitive price. Schunk says that achieving optimal holding forces and maintaining them during operations is at the heart of precision metalworking. At the heart of the Tendo Silver is Schunk’s “hydraulic expansion” technology that leverages materials and hydraulic forces to create a better more uniform hold on the tool. Schunk explains that as the clamping screw is tightened, the internal pressure medium is compressed, and the sleeve expands as a result of the internal pressure. The resultant outcome is a uniform grip with an impressive run-out accuracy of less than 0.003 mm.    Because of the firm grip provided by the hydraulic clamping system the TENDO Silver guarantees a rock-solid grip which translates into more accurate machining. With the precision and accuracy that comes with it, microchipping can be eliminated forming a perfectly finished workpiece surface. Service life of the machine, says Schunk is extended because machine spindles are well protected from the effects of vibration. The clamping tool, says Schunk, features oil cushioning to reduce any vibrations from impacting machining quality. Schunk says, its TENDO Silver clamping system is more sustainable and durable and offers a solution that saves resources and energy at an impressive price-performance ratio.  TENDO Silver is designed for convenience and versatility as it is finely balanced and prepared for high-speed applications. Users who value precision and speed appreciate the TENDO series because tool shanks can be clamped directly into the tool holder. The tool changes, which are micrometer precise and take only a few seconds, reduce setup time without needing any additional equipment. Designed for durability, the TENDO Silver tool holder has a DIN counter with a polished surface that ensures dust or rust does not accumulate on it. The tool holder also features adaptability and compatibility in its use as it can be easily integrated with a wide range of machine tool spindles with its eight different interfaces. 