ABB Releases New IRB1090 Educational Robot and Software ABB has developed a new educational robot and modular software geared towards inspiring and training the next generation of robotics engineers. Unveiled at the China International Industrial Fair (CIIF), the new ABB IRB1090 educational robot is designed to lower the barrier to entry into the world of robotics for students and new technicians. The robot is simple to install, easy to transport, and is controlled using the RobotStudio software package. STEM.org has authenticated this robot, testifying to its value as a teaching and training tool.  The IRB1090 educational robot can be used in various production cells, such as arc welding, packaging, picking, materials handling, assembly, and many others. The robot can move grippers, cameras, workpieces, cutting tools, injectors, and many other common attachments. Because the robot is suitable for real-world tasks, it is not simply a ‘toy’ robot, or a gimmick, but rather a powerful training tool.    The robot can handle payloads of up to 3.5 kg and has a reach of 580 mm. The IRB1090 occupies a 10% smaller footprint and has a 20% reduction in weight as compared to the previous ABB educational robot. Equipped with the ABB E10 Ultraslim controller, the robot is capable of quick movements (QuickMove), externally guided motions (for physically training a robot), and several other popular motion control methods.  One of the major highlighted features of the new IRB1090 is that it comes with 100 seats for the RobotStudio software package. Plenty of organizations claim to be ‘educational’ yet only offer a seat or two of their software, with more available for a high premium. For teaching in the classroom or computer laboratory, a 100-seat license surely makes the difference between a program that will be readily adopted and used versus a poor one-time expenditure that will be used a handful of times as a demonstration tool. With 100 seats, students can actually dive into robot programming details with hands-on experience.    Students who use RobotStudio will be able to develop an intuitive feel for robotic motion and control. Besides programming robots, it has numerous simulation tools so that the motion of virtual robots can be checked before sending them to actual hardware. This simulation includes braking distances under different motions and payloads, swept volume calculations, and others. RobotStudio has advanced debugging routines and collision-free path planning that enhance the safety of robotic motion. The software can also be used with the cloud, storing programs online to be manipulated or run from any device that can access the cloud. It also has sales tools to enhance the looks of the robots and programs, so that the students can make attractive presentations with high-end graphics.  ABB has developed a simple-to-use robotics package that will help bridge the workforce shortage in the long term through its deployment in schools. There, students will gain the skills and the confidence in these skills to go into the STEM fields. In the short term, the robot can be used as a training package to reduce the time required to bring new robotics and automation staff up to speed. 