Kollmorgen’s P80360 Stepper Drive Features Closed-Loop Control Kollmorgen unveils the latest addition to its line-up of stepper drives featuring closed-loop position control and efficient programming protocols. Kollmorgen, known for its motion control solutions, recently added to its flagship P8000 stepper platform, introducing the P80360 stepper drive for closed-loop position control.    Kollmorgen's P80360 offers some exceptional features that set it apart from conventional drives. Besides its innovative closed-loop position control, Kollmorgen says the P80360 features the same efficient, quiet step-less control technology as the company’s P8000 series.  Unlike traditional stepper motor systems that rely solely on open-loop control, the P80360 leaps forward by offering closed-loop position control right out of the box. Using encoder feedback, the drive can follow the location of the load and automatically compensate for overshoot or undershoot errors thanks to this cutting-edge innovation. Systems possessing compliance factors, such as gearing, couplings, or large loads generally benefit from closed-loop control. The P80360 stepper drive actively eliminates errors in positioning, thereby lowering the danger of scrap or damaging the equipment while simultaneously improving efficiency, cooler motor running, and reducing electrical consumption.  Engineers will appreciate the P80360's user-friendly programming capabilities. The drive is fully programmable via an industry-standard graphical user interface and programming language that can be easily accessed within the Kollmorgen Space software package. Users can easily create both simple point-to-point movements and complex linked motion sequences without the need for an external PLC or indexer which not only simplifies system setup but also reduces overall system cost. According to the company, with the inclusion of Motor Wizard software, Kollmorgen motor users can enjoy a simplified setup and higher operating speeds using only acceleration times and velocities of the initial profile's inputs.  One critical aspect of closed-loop control is the adjustment of proportional integral-derivative (PID) gain settings. Users can fine-tune these settings to optimize the performance of their stepper system as achieving the necessary motion control characteristics depends greatly on these gain settings. As for control signals, the P80360 stepper drive requires specific signals to operate effectively in closed-loop mode. Users who want to fully benefit from closed-loop control must comprehend these signals and how they interact with the system.  Because it is compatible with stepper motors with phase currents up to 3 A, The P80360 stepper drive is suited for a variety of applications. Whether you're working with labelers, indexing tables, CNC machines, 3D printers, pumps, medical lab devices, packaging equipment, or similar systems, the P80360 is engineered for applications requiring precise linked motion sequences or point-to-point movements.  According to Kollmorgen's Vice president of engineering,  Ross McMillan, the new P80360, in the P8000 series is a positive breakthrough for engineers looking to attain high levels of stepper motor control and precision. All Kollmorgen’s drives in the P8000 series are certified by RoHS, REACH, and CE, with the provision of expertise and support in setup and troubleshooting by offering drive selection and sizing.  As technology continues to evolve, innovative stepper drive solutions promise to push boundaries with new possibilities in motion control. Kollmorgen's P80360 stepper drive's easy-to-use programming interface, closed-loop control, and flexibility in its use in a wide range of applications will surely infiltrate the market as the first choice for engineers seeking efficiency and precision control. 