Beckhoff Enhances Electric Cylinder Lineup with New AA3100 Series Beckhoff extends its electric cylinder lineup to help customers realize the benefits of electric cylinders, including precision movement and a smaller, less complex device footprint. Whether cylinders are hydraulic, pneumatic, or electric, they are a vital part of making different components move in industrial manufacturing. They are used to push and pull, squeeze and twist, and of course, open and close a nearly limitless array of devices within a cell. Each power source has its own set of pros and cons, but electrically driven cylinders offer a unique set of characteristics that can be advantageous to manufacturers in ways that hydraulic and pneumatic cylinders simply cannot match. Electric cylinders, often called linear actuators, offer high-precision movement as a result of their design. They consist of a motor that turns an acme screw, the screw then moves the actuator into or out of the body of the cylinder. They are quieter than the other types of cylinders and can often be used with greater precision. They can also be used to provide diagnostic data for Industry 4.0 should it be needed. Electrically driven actuators do have their faults, however, and are often more expensive, with that added motor bulk causing a hindrance in some applications.  Beckhoff, a creator of advanced controls, communication, IoT, and motion technologies, has recently extended its electric cylinder lineup to include the energy-efficient AA3100 series of electric cylinders. The cylinders have been designed to be a direct replacement for legacy hydraulic and pneumatic cylinders.    Beckhoff points out that linear actuators can have a space-saving advantage over their counterparts when it comes to plant square footage. This is because electric cylinders exist as a standalone unit and only need to be powered with the use of a wire. Hydraulics and pneumatics each require an external system to supply them with the necessary energy for movement. The use of air lines, air tanks, hydraulic lines, pneumatic compressors, and pumps can lead to a more complex system with an increased chance of downtime and energy waste as a result of leaks.  Beckhoff has ensured that the latest AA3100 series of electric cylinders has the needed force, speed, and footprint to work well in most applications. They hope that using electric cylinders will help manufacturers increase plant efficiency. The cylinders feature an extra-low voltage range from 24 to 48 V DC, further solidifying their use with compact drive technology. Depending on the lead used, maximum speeds can be anywhere from 0.12 to 0.56 m/s. In addition, two different flange sizes provide a peak force rating of 2650 to 12,000 N. The cylinders can be used as a direct replacement for hydraulic or pneumatic cylinders with the use of an ISO 15552 flange size and bolting points on both sides. They also have an external thread mount on the shaft end of the spindle where ball heads, clamping hooks, and other common fittings can be mounted easily.    Beckhoff has ensured that the AA3100 series offers a high degree of customizability with simplified data access. TwinCAT 3 automation software automatically configures the cylinders after reading each cylinder's nameplate. Commissioning has been made faster and easier as a result of One Cable Technology, and the backlash-free movement of Beckhoff's precision roller bearings ensures precise, exact movement of the cylinders. There are two variants of the cylinder, the AA3123 and AA3133, each with unique force and speed ratings.  Linear motion, along with the rotary motion from motors, provides the most fundamental foundation of technology for the automation industry: movement. Innovations like Beckhoff’s AA3100 series provide new paths forward for engineers to design machines with smaller and more efficient specifications, creating a safer and more dependable future for technology in manufacturing. 