Carlo Gavazzi’s New Power Supplies Ready for Tough Duty in Tight Spaces With a name fit for an Italian supercar, Carlo Gavazzi’s compact SPDE series, two- and three-phase power supplies are ready for fast integrations. Preserving cabinet real estate is a common goal for power supply design engineers. To meet the power needs of production system designers without crowding the cabinet or mounting rail, Carlo Gavazzi’s new SPDE series power supplies are approximately 50% smaller than competitor’s offerings. Because the SPDE series is DIN rail mountable, these power supplies can more easily be mounted near existing controllers and hardware, reducing wire runs and simplifying the installation. In terms of power delivery, the SPDE power supplies can deliver 120 W up to 480 W, depending on the specific model, with 24 V DC to 48 V DC at the output terminal. Different models allow for two-phase or three-phase power. They also have flexible power input ranges, where the two-phase model will accept 180V AC to 600 V AC, or 254 V DC to 848 V DC, while the three-phase model will accept 320 V AC to 600 V AC, or 450 V DC to 850 V DC. This wide range of options makes them a good fit for integrating into existing control systems. Besides their compact size and flexibility, Carlo Gavazzi SPDE series power supplies meet all relevant industrial standards, including CE, UKCA, UL61010, and EN62368-1. Integrated into the design are multiple diagnostic and protection features including short-circuit, over-voltage (Over Voltage III), and over-current protection. An over-temperature protection circuit is provided, but according to the company, its wide temperature range (-40 °F to 158 °F), it is unlikely it will ever be put to the test.  In reality, any industry that needs power delivered reliably and does not have a lot of space for bulky power supplies will benefit from the SPDE line. During the development of these power supplies, several of them were deployed to a few industries that demand clean, reliable power. In particular, the SPDE line has been used to power data centers and manufacturing machinery.  In one case study, a data center needed three-phase power to run servers in a closely packed server room. Space and the potential for high temperatures and limited cooling were the big constraints. The SPDE power supply, engineered to operate reliably in the environment, provided the necessary power without taking up more than its fair share of data center automation space. In another case study, an original equipment manufacturer (OEM) wanted three-phase power delivered to the automation controlling critical production systems. Three-phase power means smoother operations and motions because the power supply can deliver nearly twice the power to the equipment without having to double the cabling. Carlo Gavazzi explained that by specifying SPDE power supplies, plant engineers were able to deliver safe, reliable three-phase power without issues or compromises.  With a name fit for an Italian supercar maker, Carlo Gavazzi’s technology has a reputation for technical excellence and innovation to meet the needs of plant engineers and production systems designers. SPDE power supplies offer installation flexibility supported by multiple input and output power configurations. From their DIN rail mounting ability, and compliance with all industry-relevant safety and protection standards, Carlo Gavzzi’s new SPDE series are designed for faster integrations. 