Brooks Instrument’s New Low-Flow Coriolis Mass Flow Meter Brooks Instrument releases an IoT-ready mass flow meter for high-precision measurement of liquids and gasses. For more than 70 years, Brooks Instrument has been engineering high-accuracy measuring instruments for industry. Today Brooks Instrument is a global provider of precision fluid and gas measurement and control. Recently the company released a new series of low-flow mass flow meters for measuring and controlling liquids and gases.  A Coriolis meter uses a tube with the testing medium flowing through it and a controller that vibrates the tube at its natural frequency. The frequency at which the tube vibrates at is proportional to the density of the medium flowing through the tube. As the flow increases the tube will start to twist causing a phase shift in frequency between the inlet and outlet of the measuring tube. Special sensors inside the controller measure the phase shift and report the mass flow with respect to density. Flow meters are used to measure the amount of flow going from point A to point B. This measurement data can be used to calculate the amount of product consumed over a period of time or to determine the fill rate and volume of liquids entering a vessel.     Brooks Instrument’s flow meters, for example, are well-suited for high-precision applications such as testing equipment or obtaining feedback to precise metering pumps. When auto manufacturers redesign fuel injectors they need to ensure the new design will run efficiently. Testing equipment with a mass flow meter can measure exactly the amount of fuel that passes through the injector with each pulse. These measurements can then be used by engineers to determine the efficiency of the new design.  Brooks' Quantum Coriolis Mass Flow Controller is a single-unit measuring instrument capable of high-accuracy flow measurements of low-flow liquids or gases. Now in its third generation, the QMC low-flow meter is available in two models. Regardless of the model, the engineers at Brooks Instrument have built-in IoT connectivity features and designed this lab-level precise instrument to be upscaled to fit the process.    According to Brooks Instrument, applications are far-ranging and include: A serial port is provided for communications and digital outputs. An additional service port is included and when used in conjunction with Brooks Expert Support Tool software, internal alarms, calibration verification, troubleshooting, and diagnostics can be accessed. The service tool can also be used for monitoring, configuration, and predictive maintenance. According to Brooks Instrument,  the QMC is available with HART communication, the ubiquitous protocol commonly used in process automation for displaying live values from meters in the field on a SCADA system.  Engineered for industrial applications, the Quantim QMC offers stainless steel construction that’s compatible with virtually all mediums. The process medium has a temperature range of 0 - 65 °C and an operating pressure of 500 psig with an optional internal valve rated to 1500 psig. Running on 14 to 27 V DC the QMC consumes 300 - 300 mA for the controller and 100 - 150 mA for the meter. Outputs come in analog 0 - 5 Vdc, 0-10 Vdc, 0-20 mA, and 4-20 mA with additional RS-485 connection for digital outputs. A visible LED indicator is provided to inform users that the controller is powered on and ready for operation. Connections to the meter come in ⅛” or ¼” NPTF or 1/16: to ¼: tube compression fittings, with an IP40-rated housing. 