Universal Robots’ ReAutomated Virtual Experience Addresses the Robotic Future of Manufacturing What does the future of manufacturing and production hold? UR’s virtual ReAutomated conference series aims to reveal its increasingly automated, robotic reality. Across three online conferences evangelists and creators of collaborative robots, Universal Robots (UR), invite attendees to prepare themselves to face an increasingly automated and digitally controlled future. Scheduled from September 28th to October 26th, ReAutomated is set to offer an immersive virtual conference experience covering the challenges facing industrial automators and the innovative solutions available for maximizing productivity. According to UR, ReAutomated will focus on high-potential applications including palletizing, robotic machine tending, and welding.  In addition to ongoing labor shortages and increasing packaging costs, palletizing operations are often challenged by product variability, an issue faced by most manufacturers and distributors manufacturing multiple production lines. In this scenario, plant engineers seek flexible palletizing systems capable of adapting efficiently to accommodate the different products, regardless of shapes, weights, and volumes. Addressing product and palletizing task complexity requires optimal robotic dexterity and even sharper programming skills. With legacy systems, preparing the line to palletize a single “new” product, or even more complicated, programming the machine to stack and consolidate multiple products, can take considerable resources and time. According to Packagingguruji.com, there are three main types of palletization: horizontal, vertical, and mixed. Horizontal palletization involves stacking products in straight lines. Vertical palletization involves stacking objects in a pyramid shape, while mixed stacking implies just that. Regardless, programming a new stacking routine to accommodate multiple products repeatedly to keep up with market and consumer demands is usually accompanied by downtime and a loss of productivity. Adding to Another element to consider is the difficulty in finding a balance between human and automated palletizing procedures to maximize labor and equipment inputs.   Robotic machine tending, which relies on automated systems for loading and unloading material supplies/workpieces to and from manufacturing machinery, increases productivity but faces several difficulties, including adjusting to variable workpiece structures, ensuring worker safety, intricate programming, and integration, dealing with downtime and upkeep costs, sustaining flexibility for altering production requirements, tackling personnel skill gaps, and achieving consistent standards of quality. In the context of welding, the lack of skilled workers in the trade is a chronic and ongoing problem. Alongside the challenges of product variability, maintaining productivity and quality while ensuring the safety of the people who operate side by side with welding cobots. It’s a  big problem. As many as 360,000 welders will have to join the industrial workforce by 2027, to address the gap says the  American Welding Society.  Each virtual ReAutomate conference includes a welcome session, panel discussions led by industry experts, application case studies, and other compelling content. Universal Robots will also take attendees on a virtual deep dive into the UR20 cobot. A primary focal point for the trio of conferences, UR will feature its versatile cobot with three live demonstrations showcasing this handy robot’s adaptability across machine tending, welding, and palletizing. With three conferences scheduled to go live, attendees from around the world can attend sessions conveniently scheduled to accommodate attendees from around the world:   The 20kg payload UR20 cobot employs adaptable end-of-arm tools (EOATs) including grippers, suction cups, or bespoke tooling for effective workpiece handling in machine tending applications. It prioritizes safety with built-in capabilities like collision monitoring and collaboration for safe contact with human employees. Task training is made simpler with the help of its user-friendly programming interface, which prioritizes safety. Automating machine tending with the help of the UR20 can help avoid unnecessary injuries and consequent downtime, avoid inconsistent loading and mishandlings, and lower operational costs while pushing forward production. With a standard order, customers receive a 12kg control box, a 3PE teach pendant (with an integrated 3-position enabling device), a power cable, a UR20 robotic arm, and a cable that runs between the arm and control box. The teach pendant provides access to the PolyScope control software, which facilitates optimally controlled and safe human-machine collaboration.  Universal’s cobot can perform metal inert gas, Tungsten inert gas, and spot-welding processes with attachments including wire feeders, torches, and EOATs. According to UR, the bot delivers fine motion control to optimize weld quality, resulting in superior, certifiable welds. Welding is risky business (with the production of harmful metal fumes and sparks) and safety is maintained via measures like safety-rated stops and speed/separation tracking. Welding is a high-level skill that involves repetitive operations. According to UR, UR20 can take on monotonous welding and fabricating tasks and free up skilled workers for other high-value tasks. Flexibility is critical and according to UR, the UR20 can be customized to meet specific palletizing requirements by adding grippers specifically engineered to accommodate various product and packaging types. With the help of software from UR, programming is more accessible and efficient, which includes tools for palletizing and pattern creation optimization. UR20 is also compatible with already-existing palletizing lines and conveyor systems, enabling faster deployment of reprogrammed automated palletizing systems. Think attending ReAutomate should be on your agenda? To immerse yourself in UR’s virtual experience and access its insightful and informative content, visit UR’s page. 