Keyence Introduces World’s First Clamp-On Air-Flow Sensor With New Series Keyence announces the release of innovative air monitoring sensors designed to provide critical air system data when and where it’s needed most. Keyence has recently announced the release of three new sensor series: the Air Quality Multi Sensor MP-F Series, the Air Flow and Pressure Dual Sensor FD/EP Series, and the Clamp-on Air Flow FD-EC Series. All of Keyence’s new devices are designed to give engineers and production system designers the tools they need to access critical air system condition data including humidity, pressure, temperature, and airflow in real time.  Keyence explains the multi-sensor MP-F Series gives users all-in-one access to air quality/condition metrics, in real time. According to the company, the data the devices collect can help users improve efficiency and reduce downtime. Keyence says the MP-F Series is designed to accommodate air lines with diameters ranging from 3 ⁄ 8 to 1 in., engineered to sense and monitor: Of course, this series of sensors offers a bright easy-to-read screen to display data and device information. The MP-F can also store data without external storage devices collecting and storing pertinent data without the use of special software programming. Engineers can also take advantage of the device’s built-in shut-off valve, leak-detection capabilities, as well as CO2 emissions and electricity consumption data.    According to Keyence, when engineers gain a clearer understanding of the condition of their pneumatic equipment the better their decision-making will be regarding operation and maintenance. For example, Keyence sensors will immediately alert operators when leaks are detected. The display can also show the pressure and flow of the air line in real-time. The ability to monitor both flow and pressure simultaneously means that machine failure is detectable well before catastrophic failure occurs. Because of its unique free-flowing design, Keyence says the FD-EP is at zero risk of clogging or pressure loss during operation. Choosing the correct unit to specify is also made easier because the flow rate doesn’t change based on the model, relative to other vendor’s sensing lines. Keyence explains specifying purchasers simply choose the diameter they want and the rest will follow suit.  Never far from innovation, Keyence's new series includes what it touts as the “world's first” clamp-on air flow sensor, the FD-EC Series. Keyence says it believes its new sensor series gives users and specifiers a better and easier point of access to accurate air system data. Keyence explains this helps eliminate potential sources of failure in a machine's air infrastructure. Similarly, systems can continue to operate during installation which indeed will save time, money, and effort and kill downtime before it can start.    Because the devices are designed to clamp on, they conserve weight, eliminating mounting brackets and all the rest from the equation. Additionally, the sensors are compact and able to fit into tight spaces where air lines often run. Forward and reverse airflow detection is also possible and their high-resolution displays provide status updates at a glance.  Gathering operating data from machines and systems in real-time is key to better … well everything. The adage “you can’t manage what you can’t measure” holds, but fortunately, suppliers like Keyence understand this, providing easy-to-implement sensors that will help prevent engineers from ever having to say they’re sorry to executive leadership and shareholders. 