Simple to Configure and Program, SMC’s New Line of Air Grippers Reduce Air Usage Designed to simplify and optimize object manipulation and control, SMC’s RMH series grippers are available for 12 standard robot/cobot lines. SMC has designed the new series of grippers in three different styles: Standard, three-finger, and long stroke. The shape of the objects being moved determines which gripper should be specified. Three-finger designs notes SMC, are ideally suited to manipulate rounded objects, which generally can pose problems for two-finger designs. According to SMC, square or rectangular objects are more easily handled with 2-finger grippers. Regardless, with RMH Series grippers it is the object’s size that determines whether a standard-type or long-stroke type is more appropriate. To change tools, technicians simply remove two bolts, replace the gripper, and then retighten the same bolts. This makes switching tools faster. The full installation requires only a “one touch” air hose connection and attaching a single control wire.  SMC’s grippers also integrate with 12 popular robotics manufacturers. FANUC, OMRON/TECHMAN, Mitsubishi Electric, ABB, Universal Robotics, as well as several other popular platforms, easily integrate with the SMC RMH grippers. According to SMC, this reduces the barrier-to-entry for gripper specifiers, as no special training, proprietary software, or new robotics equipment purchases are required.    One key feature of the RMH series grippers is their reduced air usage. Compressed air can be an expensive utility for manufacturers, and the benefits of reducing compressed air consumption can quickly add up. SMC’s grippers are designed with an internal solenoid for operation. Many competitors, says SMC, use the solenoids that are added to the cobot. By “unitizing” the solenoid, that is, including the solenoid in the gripper, there are fewer connections that potentially could be compromised. Furthermore, the solenoid is housed inside the gripper, meaning less exposure to the outside environment and fewer opportunities for contamination or dust to interfere with operation. Ultimately, this means less wear and tear on the system. Unitized solenoids are also faster to install and faster to respond according to SMC. External solenoids require additional connections, which means more time-consuming installation, and slightly more air to pressurize the system. SMC’s grippers also help reduce intrusive compressed air noise. When the system exhausts (as all pneumatic motion control systems do), the air passes through a sound muffler to reduce noise. This is particularly important for cobots that are operating near humans. Lastly, because air velocity is reduced, this system kicks up less dust.  To support access and application, RMH series grippers provide easy installation and reduced air usage. Capable of integrating with most existing cobot platforms the devices help lower barriers to entry with fewer compromises at a competitive price. SMC grippers offer the utility and functionality roboticists need to accomplish production tasks including picking, placing, and palletizing along with reduced air usage, free from annoying compressed air noises. 