Rockwell and Infinitum Combine VFDs and Motors Into a Single Resource-Efficient Device Getting their “tech” together, Rockwell and Infinitum combine low-voltage VFDs and super-efficient motors to reduce carbon footprint and power consumption. Rockwell Automation, a prominent supplier of variable frequency drives (VFDs), and Infinitum, known for its high-efficiency motors, recently joined forces to deliver a more environmentally friendly combined device. By integrating Infinitum's highly efficient Aircore motors with Rockwell Automation’s energy-efficient low-voltage PowerFlex VFD technology, the combined device promises to be 50% smaller and lighter, use 66% less copper, and reduce overall energy consumption by 10%. Rockwell Automation and Infinitum's goals are well aligned as they both aim to reduce the carbon footprint of their technologies by providing a solution that requires fewer core materials to manufacture and consumes significantly less energy. According to Rockwell Automation, about 40% of global energy consumption goes to powering electric motors. Data from the International Energy Agency (IEA), notes consumption is as much as 70% for industrial companies. In 2021, Rockwell Automation collaborated with Infinitum by buying an equity stake in their series C funding to develop the company’s IEs series motors. With a successful history of collaboration, Infinitum and Rockwell are expected to make the solution available through Rockwell and its partners in late 2024.  Combining good intentions with even better technology,  Rockwell's market-leading lineup of  PowerFlex VFD technology leverages Infinitum’s Aircore EC motors, featuring an innovative printed circuit board (PCB) stator technology.   Rockwell's market-leading lineup of  PowerFlex VFD technology. Image used courtesy of Rockwell Automation Barry Elliot, vice president and the general manager of control for Rockwell Automation, recognized Infinitum's motors for the efficient and sustainable easy-to-use motors that they are. Elliott also expressed excitement about the impact that the collaborative solution will bring forth. Infinitum’s CEO and founder Ben Schuler pointed out that the collaboration with Rockwell Automation will pave new ways for system designers and engineers to access resource-efficient, environmentally friendly technologies by delivering a more sustainable motor and drive combination that consumes less power.    Engineers and system designers are constantly seeking solutions that reduce production costs while being efficient in their work. In the case of motors, efficient ones that consume less power are a sure win for most industries as they will not only lower the cost of electricity but also help reduce their carbon footprint in an effort to meet society’s and environmentalists' demands. Given that it is Rockwell and Infinitum integrating their VFDs and Motors, it is highly likely that promised scalability, sustainability, and power efficiency will soon follow. 