Saelig to Distribute Coltraco Permaflow Flowmeters Well-known New York-based electronics distributor offers up clamp-on Coltraco Flowmeters. Clamp-on Permaflow Ultrasonic Transit-time Flow and Heat Meters leverage ultrasonic technology to measure flow accurately to +/-0.5%. Compatible with DN15 - DN2500 pipes (0.5”-98”) are designed to reliably collect flow data fin liquid processing systems. Beyond simple flow metering, Permaflow flowmeters are capable of measuring mass-flow and volumetric-flow rates, flow velocity, energy flow rate, volume, mass, and energy of the liquid in the process. Geeks with chemical engineering backgrounds will agree this technology is exciting! With a single device process engineers can collect a ton of data quickly and accurately to accomplish a variety of calculations, especially mass and energy balances.    Similar to the Keyence FDR series devices sold by Saelig, the Coltraco Permaflow offers similar benefits. For example, Permaflow meters offer simple installation with zero downtime because pipes do not need to be penetrated or process flow locked out. The device also includes a built-in oscilloscope and an optional ISO 17025 calibration certificate that supports a quick setup. According to the distributor, the risk of damage from flow forces is eliminated because there is no contact with liquids in the process. Similarly, the design offers lower maintenance costs, better reliability, and faster installation.  Coltraco’s ultrasonic transit-time flow and heat meters are a great option for a variety of applications and industries. Petrochemical engineers, for example, can use the devices to accurately monitor oil and gas products in the field and refinery. Agriculture is another industry likely to benefit from monitoring irrigation flows. Lastly, the device is well suited to supply data to SCADA systems for food and beverage or pharmaceutical manufacturing.  Permaflow meters offer a variety of communication and integration options for SCADA monitoring purposes. It includes a built-in I/O module that includes 4-20mA analog signals, digital, Modbus, Relay, OPTO, and Open Collector. The device also supports serial communication using USB and RS232 interfaces. Furthermore, if your application does not demand integration, the device includes 16MB of internal memory that can store up to 90,000 measurements. This data can then be extracted via USB export when needed.  The device has the option to measure temperature with PT100 thermometer inputs. It can measure the supply and return temperatures of the liquid. This option is great for heating and chilling efficiency calculations. An example use case is energy monitoring for HVAC or large buildings. This is a popular application with the shift of focus on environmental sustainability regulations. A building or HVAC system's total energy consumption could be calculated using these thermometers.   Capable of measuring thermal gradients, mass and volumetric flow rates, velocity, energy flow, volume, mass, and energy of liquids in process, the handy device is sure to have mass appeal among process engineers. Equipped with the flow and other data in real-time, system designers and engineers can easily mount them where this critical data can do the most good in supporting process goals. 