OSARO and FANUC to Expedite E-commerce and Warehousing Fulfillment With Vision-Enhancing Software OSARO’s SightWorks vision software boosts FANUC’s robotic picking prowess to optimize fulfillment operations. FANUC America Corporation and OSARO are joining forces to boost the productivity of warehousing and e-commerce operations. Automation, robotics, and machine motion specialist, FANUC, united with OSARO to integrate SightWorks vision software with its arsenal of pick-and-place robots. OSARO is a noted artificial intelligence (AI)--backed vision and control software solutions provider for automated robotic systems.  According to Grand View Research, the global e-commerce market stood at $9 trillion in 2019 and is projected to climb at a compound annual growth rate of 14.7% between 2020 and 2027. Drivers of this growth include increased connectivity from 4G and 5G communications, along with rising consumer demand for the purchase and rapid receipt of online goods. More than 20% of retail sales were attributed to e-commerce during 2022 alone, says Vecna Robotics.   The global rise in e-commerce coupled with unstable political conditions, the pandemic, and the shortage of skilled labor all have led to greater demand for advanced warehouse automation technologies. According to interact analysis, the global warehouse automation market is set to jump from $29.6 billion to $69 billion between 2020 and 2025. FANUC and OSARO are working together to grow their business and satisfy customer demand for improved automated robotics solutions for e-commerce and warehousing fulfillment operations by developing improved vision-enhanced robotic technologies.  One of SightWorks' standout qualities is its powerful perception abilities coupled with flexibility in various lighting environments. Additionally, it features sophisticated sensory assistance and algorithms for grasping tools, making it fit for a range of applications. The vision software excels in recommending ideal pick locations and orientations that are matched to the unique properties of the target items, increasing the effectiveness of the piece-picking process. SightWorks can manage a varied inventory of packaged items and products (of different sizes and shapes) frequently seen in warehouses. With machine learning-enabled vision, the system can continuously adapt and learn from every pick and save this information for later use. According to OSARO, SightWorks optimizes piece-picking operations warehouse-wide including kitting, bin-to-bin, and bagging, as well as autonomous mobile robots and automatic storage retrieval systems. SightWorks recognizes multipacks in addition to cases and can identify patterned or colorful packaging, their depth, level of surface tilt, dimensions, and orientation when viewed on the pallet. The system detects damaged containers, using a "damage score" to assign each situation a rating. This allows for informed decisions concerning the best action to take to minimize leakage and disruption. Sightworks also highlights errors or anything out of place on a pallet that might cause obstruction. The system identifies teetering or improperly arranged products for proper placement, avoiding unwanted accidents.  Notably, the system can manage items arriving in groups through, conveyors, bins, or chutes and pick items quickly from disorganized stacks. SightWorks plans the robot arm's movements even when the complete parcel cannot be observed. Additionally, it locates barcodes on packages and makes sure they are oriented in a way that is compatible with later scanning procedures, improving overall operating efficiency.  Users can take advantage of OSARO’s RESTful application programming interface, integrating SightWorks with other warehouse automation technologies to maximize interoperability. Another benefit of advanced robotic vision is the reduction of order cycle time, consequently improving delivery speed and the accuracy of order fulfillment. Customers can also utilize a dedicated monitoring tool for performance evaluation and optimization throughout SightWorks’ use. With a 24/7 vision system, robot operators do not have to worry about staff getting tired, ill, or incurring injuries. Users can save on floor space and improve their return on investment through greater productivity. OSARO is also helping customers purchase and install its vision software more efficiently through its Partners Alliance. The alliance brings together a cohesive network of integrators, vendors, distributors, logistics companies, and consultants to provide customers with unified solutions and broaden supply chain capabilities for e-commerce and logistics sectors. 