Cabinet Space: WAGO’s New ECO 2 Power Supply Saves It Powering low-voltage devices properly often requires adding a DC power supply to the cabinet. Mounting space, however, is often at a premium. Prudently sensitive to market needs, vendors, including WAGO, continue to shrink the form to do more with less. DC power supplies play an important role in the control cabinet. Low-voltage controls and motors often require the devices to convert primary AC current into a reliable DC power supply. More and more production and manufacturing systems require low-voltage DC power supplies, prompting engineers to find more space in the cabinet for them. Solution providers offer power supplies covering a wide range of voltages to help engineers specify the correct voltage required to power the device. To answer to market demands, several vendors offer adjustable power supplies to simplify purchasing and specification. Engineers suffer for many reasons, but one is being forced to make hard engineering compromises often associated with limitations, like the physical space inside a cabinet to mount control components.   WAGO, a global supplier of electrical components, has recently announced the addition of the ECO 2 DC power supply to their DC power supply lineup. The ECO 2 has been designed with control cabinet space in mind and fits into a space-saving 50mm DIN rail footprint. WAGO has designed the power supply to be a versatile addition to many of their customers' DC power supply needs.    The device can accept a range of incoming single-phase AC power; it can use any AC power with a voltage range of 100 to 240 V AC, alternating at 50/60 Hz. The ECO 2 offers adjustable output voltage to fit different supply needs, with a maximum output of 24 VDC with a 10A current rating and 240W power rating. WAGO has also kept efficiency in mind to help save on energy costs, and the power supply has a peak efficiency rating of 93%. The ECO 2 is also designed for applications to cope with harsh industrial environments. Featuring an operating temperature range of (-25 °C to +70 °C), WAGO's power supply is ready for wide application in a range of environments. It can also be installed without using tools due to WAGO’s patented Push-In CAGE CLAMP technology, helping ease the installation process. WAGO has made the power supply user-friendly and included convenient marking options as well as LED status indications. In addition, DC O.K. contacts are available on the ECO 2 DC to monitor the power supply in situations that require it. They work by monitoring the output voltage, if the output voltage drops below a certain threshold of the preset value, the contacts will open. This is useful in scenarios that require redundancy.  DC power supplies are an integral part of almost all control cabinets. They work by changing incoming AC power and turning it into useful DC power to power up the many different devices within a control cabinet. WAGO’s latest power supply, the ECO 2, offers customers a versatile, adjustable power supply that features tool-less installation. 