ForwardX Robotics Releases New Flex Series AMR ForwardX adds new muscle to their Flex 60 series AMRs, increasing picking speed and accuracy for automated warehouse applications. ForwardX is a global supplier of vision-guided autonomous mobile robots (AMRs). Since 2016 the company has been engineering and manufacturing AMRs designed for warehouse operations and manufacturing applications. Featuring AMRs suited for material handling industries, ForwardX models include Apex series autonomous forklifts, Max series conveyors, and its Flex series of flexible AMRs. Recently ForwardX added a new muscle to the Flex series: the Flex 60-SW.  Typically industrial robots follow predefined paths or instructions. Autonomous mobile robots on the other hand require only a map and destination. An AMR will travel from point A to point B without tracking tape or instructed/programmed positions. Designers place proximity and other sensors strategically around the robot to detect humans, machines, and other obstacles. Similar to household robotic vacuums, the AMR can change sense objects and change direction to avoid walls, moving objects and now the “presents” pets often leave behind. For most material handling applications the AMR is a valuable asset because it can handle dangerous goods, respond to impediments quickly, and move to a safe position in an emergency.    With consumers eschewing traditional brick-and-mortar shopping at an increasing rate, more and more shoppers are turning to online retailers than ever before. The delivery of these millions of packages requires millions upon millions of square feet of warehouse and distribution space, as well as tons of automation and material handling equipment. The overall premise is to warehouse products until they are purchased. Once an order is placed the items selected need to be picked from the shelf or bin it is stored, then packaged and shipped to the consumer. If all the products are in known, prescribed locations, an AMR is capable of finding the destination, lifting a rack containing the selected products, delivering it to packaging, and preparing the purchase for shipping. Employing AMRs takes an extremely tedious and potentially dangerous task out of human hands. E-commerce fulfillment depends on the speed and accuracy of selecting and picking operations. Human ergonomic issues associated with repetitive tasks and motion, lifting heavy loads, climbing stairs, and working adjacent to heavy floor equipment are completely ameliorated.  The Flex series from ForwardX is an AMR that is designed to be used in collaboration with humans. Featuring a flexible payload tray configuration, there are five different configurations in the series: Three offer an HMI mounted at working height for easy operator interaction with the robot. The 300-L is designed to lift and dock movable racks throughout the factory floor, while the 60-T is a towing AMR. All Flex 300 models have a payload capacity of 300kg while the Flex 60 model has a payload capacity of 60kg. According to ForwardX, its Flex series is engineered and designed to provide maximum utility, flexible enough to integrate into virtually any factory material handling setting.    Picking components quickly and accurately to fulfill orders is an extremely important task and mandatory for warehousing and distributor business models. Controlling order fulfillment often requires weighing orders to ensure the correct amount is present in the packaging, this process can be time-consuming and scales are not commonly found on AMRs, that is, until now.    The Flex 60-SW is built with integrated high-accuracy scales that can report the weight of the picked product within seconds. By using an automatic integrated weighing system the AMR can validate the product that was picked and possibly prevent upset customers. The Flex 60-SW is also equipped with a touchscreen monitor and software that can be configured to display visual queues such as quantities, bar codes, pass/fail indicators, and other visual indicators. The 60-SW has all the same features as the other Flex 60 AMRs in the product family such as a 60kg payload, 180-degree obstacle detection and avoidance, vision guidance, and SLAM navigation, and is designed to work alongside operators. 