Opto22 Updates Groov Rio With New 3.5 Firmware Opto 22's Groov Rio now includes a CODESYS runtime engine for a better degree of edge-of-network application control. At its core, the Groov Rio by Opto22 is made for the systems integrator. It bridges the gap between OT sensors/devices and applications in the IT realm. It offers a compact integration solution where traditional PLCs or industrial PCs are overkill for the integration task. There are three models depending on the application; Rio MM1, Rio MM2, and Rio EMU. The unit is rated for harsh industrial control environments, can operate from -20° to 70° C, and is ready for DIN rail or panel mounting straight out of the box.   To connect to factory-level devices and sensors the rio offers 10 configurable discrete or analog I/O channels. To integrate or move the data collected, the Rio line offers several options. The most popular option, traditionally, was to utilize the built-in Node-RED editor to design data flows in the intuitive UI. Other options include MQTT, a built-in OPC-UA server, or custom Python scripts built in a Linux-based text editor such as nano over an SSH connection.   The CODESYS runtime engine is now included with each of the three models which expands the level of control at the edge node. With the CODESYS Development System, control engineers can use tools such as ladder logic and function block diagrams to execute more control over the devices and tags connected to the Rio node. It can serve as a more unified solution compared to the other included entities on the rio. For example, CODESYS can be used to program PLC’s, support communication such as MQTT, while also serving as an HMI. It serves a similar purpose to the Ignition Edge enabled SKU of the Rio.   Another notable feature of the firmware upgrade is the compatibility of MQTT communication with the eclipse sparkplug specification. This specification sets a standardized mode of structuring payloads and topics between devices and systems. The benefit of following this standard is that all MQTT devices and systems within your Industrial Control System network will be communicating with the same payload structure. This greatly improves the scalability and maintenance of the MQTT architecture at your facility for the controls or systems engineer.  The groov Rio EMU model (GRV-R7-I1VAPM-3) can now store energy accumulation and summation values so that data is persistent even during power cycles. Within the system, batch changes are now featured which provides a much more efficient workflow for the control engineer. Lastly, within the groov Manage software, there’s a new streaming configuration area, Modbus calculator pages, and additional system status information in Data Service. 