Festo Releases Low-Cost Pneumatic Service Units The MS-Basic is Festo's low-cost compatible cousin to its high-end MS series. Compressed air is an efficient way of automating mechanical motion and control. Pneumatics are well-known for precise machine and object control as well as their utility in handling sensitive and fragile products and materials. Festo’s extensive line of pneumatic control technologies is likely to be found in the most advanced production machines and systems. Festo has introduced the MS-Basic line to complement its MS series and offer engineers a more economical alternative, which mirrors the MS product line but at a more accessible, competitive price point.   Pneumatics are a great way to apply mechanical force to components or parts. Pneumatic actuators come in a variety of different shapes and sizes to facilitate different applications. A common application is picking parts from a feeder and placing the part onto a pallet or conveyor. This process is a common function with machine builders. The same application can be achieved with servo actuators but at a much higher cost. Any pneumatic system will require some standard components including:   According to Festo its MS-Basic pressure and filter regulators are light and powerful with a robust flow rate of up to 6000 l/min and a polymer body that reduces unit weight by up to 30% compared to metal alternatives. Festo also includes an integrated filter regulator featuring a transparent bowl to provide a clear indication of air quality and contamination. Festo says a manual or normally closed, fully automatic condensate drain provides process reliability and protection against contamination. An electric on/off valve or a soft start/quick exhaust valve is available. Festo explains soft-start units safely and slowly build working pressure at an adjustable rate until it reaches 50% of set pressure before switching to full set pressure. Lastly, Festo offers an online configurator to help configure the optimum air preparation system.    Festo also recently introduced a new ordering system. According to Festo, its Essentials program is designed to help streamline e-commerce-based ordering processes and help guarantee fast delivery for in-stock items. Of course, the MS-Basic series will be available for purchase through Festo’s Essentials program. 