OTTO Motors Announces Heavy-Duty Autonomous Material Mover OTTO Motors' latest AMR offering is fit for heavy-duty material handling. Autonomous mobile robots (AMRs) are changing how we view and design material handling within a manufacturing space. Different from an autonomous guided vehicle (AGV), which follows a hardwired path, an AMR can move freely and autonomously within its environment – without an operator or predetermined path. Located in Kirchner, Ontario, OTTO Motors is a division of Clearpath Robotics. About to be acquired by Rockwell Automation, OTTO Motors focuses on engineering AMRs capable of lifting and moving large loads typically found in manufacturing facilities or warehouses. Recently OTTO Motors introduced their latest independent, heavy-duty hauler, the OTTO 1200.   The job of an AMR is to move materials and other payloads around a factory floor without running into obstacles or people. This task may seem simple to people but it does require a lot of careful engineering to ensure the task is completed safely. Offering a carrying capacity of 1200 kg, the OTTO 1200 is just 910 mm wide. Given its compact footprint, the OTTO 1200 can maneuver tight spaces with ease. To prevent crashes and near misses the OTTO 1200 is equipped with a fieldset adaptive technology that OTTO motors patterned. Adaptive fieldset technology allows the OTTO 1200 to safely and quickly maneuver around obstacles and transit intersections without slowing down. One reason you ought to try OTTO 1200 is that it offers a faster overall payload delivery than other AMRs on the market.  AMRs are generally engineered to be flexible and versatile. Typically AMRs have a wide range of payload capacities and come in a variety of sizes. For these reasons, most can be usefully employed in virtually any factory setting. Warehouses and similar operations, however, often benefit the most from deploying AMRs, essentially for their ability to lift and move payloads and deliver them where needed. They eliminate ergonomic issues stemming from human operators and make excellent substitutes for forklifts. Most understand electric vehicles like Teslas require large battery packs with hundreds of individual lithium battery cells to deliver power to the motors. Assembling EV battery packs is potentially dangerous because of all the stored energy. Transporting these batteries represents even more danger. In the event of an unintended thermal event whilst carrying EV battery packs, AMRs, including the OTTO 1200 have sensors to detect heat, and can be programmed to travel to a safe area.  All AMRs require maintenance periodically and that means downtime and subsequently, loss of production. The OTTO 1200 is designed and built with maintenance in mind. For example, special rapid-access drawers allow maintenance staff access to serviceable parts without requiring the removal of the payload. The casing of the OTTO 1200 is all metal and is IP54-rated for harsh operating environments.    All of the OTTO AMRs use the OTTO Fleet Manager software. This platform allows the operator to configure one unit or a whole fleet, programming traffic rules including speed limits, restricted areas, and congested pedestrian traffic areas. A powerful tool, OTTO Motors’ fleet management software also allows the operator to monitor location, travel time, and much more. 