Rockwell Automation Signs Agreement to Acquire Clearpath Clearly strategic, Rockwell plans to combine its PLCs and Clearpath’s autonomous mobile robots (AMRs) to transform autonomous production logistics. On the eve of Pack Expo, Rockwell Automation, Inc. announced it signed a definitive agreement to acquire Clearpath Robotics Inc., a leader in AMRs for industrial applications. According to Rockwell Automation, AMRs will be at the forefront of manufacturing innovation and its acquisition of Clearpath will “supercharge Rockwell’s lead in bringing the Connected Enterprise to life.”    Pointing out its continuing strategy of building relationships and alliances with strong technical innovators, Rockwell explained that along with its leadership in PLCs, the addition of OTTO Motors’ AMR capabilities will create a “complete portfolio of advanced material handling solutions unmatched in the industry.” Manufacturing systems engineers understand that parts and materials transfer within assembly lines and between manufacturing cells is one of the industry’s more complex tasks, which often results, notes Rockwell, in production bottlenecks and inefficiencies. Seeking to transform autonomous production logistics and workflows throughout assembly and manufacturing, Rockwell predicts substantial reductions in costs as well as greater operational efficiency. In its announcement, Rockwell also highlighted Clearpath’s OTTO Motors Division which offers AMRs, fleet management, and navigational software, which has proven to significantly increase throughput and avoid unnecessary costs associated with production logistics.  Valuing the market for AMRs at $2.9 billion in 2022, Grand View Research expects the global market to grow at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 15.5% from 2023 to 2030, reaching $9.56 billion by 2030. Seeking to deliver a whole greater than the sum of its parts, Rockwell will deliver a unified solution for manufacturing, enabling autonomous execution and optimization to increase efficiency and allow for traceability and real-time adjustments. Rockwell explained that the data from its technologies and OTTO Motors’ AMRs will be harnessed and leveraged using artificial intelligence-powered Software as a Service (SaaS) information management applications, as well as the company’s Plex and Fiix businesses. The combined technology, said Rockell will also amplify Kalypso’s production logistics consulting practice.  Founded in 2009, Clearpath, with headquarters in Ontario, Canada got its start providing robotics technology solutions to global research and development markets. In 2015, the company launched its OTTO Motors Division. Most agree it’s going to be a smart match, including Clearpath: “Industrial customers are under ever-increasing pressure to do more with less,” remarked Matt Rendall, Clearpath’s co-founder and CEO. “Autonomous production logistics are becoming a necessity to meet targets and stay competitive. We are excited to join Rockwell and help expand their leadership position in advanced material handling.” According to Rockwell, the acquisition is to be funded from a portion of the proceeds from the sale of Rockwell’s investment in PTC. Subject to customary regulatory approval the acquisition is expected to close the first quarter of Rockwell’s fiscal year 2024. At close, Clearpath will report to Rockwell’s Intelligent Devices operating segment. 