LUTZE Introduces Efficiency and Remote-Control Convenience in a Compact Power Supply LUTZE offers two new, more efficient/functional devices for its user-friendly line of power supplies. Efficient power supply is an industry staple. The need for a power supply that functions flawlessly is driving innovation, and suppliers are responding. For example, LUTZE, a company that specializes in the production of electrical components and industrial automation solutions, has recently added two new power supply designs to its series of 3-phase compact power supplies. LUTZE’s new devices integrate a wide range of features to improve efficiency and convenience.    The two new 3-phase primary switched power supply units, CPSB3-240-24 and CPSB3-120-24, offer slightly varying specifications when it comes to wattage and output current. Both have an extended range of input power, between 350 V and 575 V AC, and a 24 V DC output. The CPSB3-240-24 has a 240 W power rating with an output current of 10A while CPSB3-120-24 is rated at 120 W with an output current of 5 A.  Both devices can dissipate heat and reduce power loss and possess an efficiency rating of 93%. These units also have a power boost function that can handle fast switching of high peak loads. This function allows loads to be energized within a short time frame. With their wide input voltage range (between 350V and 570V AC), the two units can operate in parallel while effectively balancing the load.  LUTZE integrated remote switching to enhance the convenience of power management and other operations like maintenance routines. This switching functionality turns the power supply's output on or off with ease thereby effectively managing power and reducing power consumption.  Effective products are typically designed to be easy to install and maintain. LUTZE’s new power supplies offer similar user-friendliness and are optimized to support service and installation. QR codes, for example, are printed clearly on the front plate and can be easily scanned for device documentation. LUTZE’s devices also have a user-friendly, tool-free push-in terminal to help simplify installation.  Fabricated from aluminum, housings offer a protection rating of IP20 (IEC 529 / EN 60529). The IP20 rating means the devices are resistant to stresses from the environment and equipped with a DIN-Rail mount, are resistant to vibration. LUTZE's power supplies are engineered to comply with global approval bodies including UL 61010-2-201 and UL 61010-1, UKCA, and CE.  As technology keeps evolving, the need for efficient, convenient power supplies capable of delivering increasing loads will continue to grow. Power supplies are finding use in a wide variety of applications, from consumer electronics to complex industrial systems. and users are always searching for better solutions to improve the efficiency and functionality of their power supplies. LUTZE's compact 3-phase power supplies offer the innovation users need to keep the “lights” on during production. 