Pack Accordingly: Pack Expo Returns to Las Vegas on Sept. 11-13 With all eyes on innovation, Control.com will be in attendance, ready to learn about the latest products and solutions from the industry’s top experts and industry minds. In a pre-expo announcement, Jim Pittas, PMMI’s president & CEO, attributed the jump in attendance and the depth of exhibitors, as a testament to the industry’s tremendous growth, as well as the need for new solutions. “A thriving industry allows for great opportunities as well as challenges—and we’ll be addressing critical issues such as sustainability, workforce, and automation to name a few. It will all come together making Pack Expo Las Vegas a world-class, must-attend event.” Featuring multiple free educational platforms and networking opportunities, PMMI said the event is set to provide endless prospects for exchanging ideas and professional growth.    Attendance will be robust this year. At the time of this news item’s posting, PMMI’s website showed 23,567 in-person registrations. Although Las Vegas may not seem the most likely destination for engineering professionals and suppliers, it’s actually been a mecca for automation and control and the site of significant innovation over the decades. Cirque du Soleil’s staging of Beetles Love is one of the industry’s best examples of how art and science collide, forming a beautiful collaboration, and a show that’s hard to forget.  This year, Pack Expo’s theme is “Expect Innovation.” Promising to provide “more product launches, never-seen-before solutions, and fresh innovations under one roof than anywhere else in North America” to address critical industry trends. Among the 2000+ list of exhibitors are many prominent leaders in the control automation space. Offering a great opportunity to learn and understand what’s state-of-the-art in the industry, Control.com’s team is excited to meet with top technology leaders and learn first-hand about new products and critical advancements in control and automation innovation. We’ll have more to say during and after the show, but exhibitors have already begun to whet our appetites with a few pre-show announcements. Here are a few that caught our recent attention.  Yaskawa Motoman has announced a large booth with a wide variety of vision, robotics, and motion applications. One of the exciting new product announcements is a new lineup of white, epoxy-coated servo motors designed specifically for food-grade applications. The designs are FDA-approved to meet hygienic equipment requirements, removing the risk of food contaminants and preventing motor damage from high-pressure washdowns.    The motors to be displayed at the booth range in size from 600 W (equivalent to about 0.8 HP) up to 4.5 kW (6 HP). These motors are compatible with the Sigma series of servo amplifiers from Yaskawa.  Autonomous robots will certainly be a highlight of a show that centers on packaging technology. These robots constitute innovative newcomers to the logistics and distribution industries. OTTO Motors, a leader in AMR technology, has announced the demonstration of its fleet of rugged and heavy-duty OTTO 600 and OTTO 1500 AMRs, as well as the OTTO Lifter, an autonomous pallet mover.    In addition to these previously announced models, OTTO is holding a special announcement of the arrival of a new offering, which is to be provided on the first day of the show! Stay tuned to Control.com, or visit the booth to learn more about this announcement.  FANUC is a well-known leader in the world of industrial robotics but will be showcasing many specialty solutions from different series of robots at the show. The collaborative CRX series, including the new CRX-25iA, will be on display showing functions such as kitting and palletizing products.    Along with its cobots, FANUC will also show applications of Delta, SCARA, and traditional articulated arms, built to be reliable for nearly every conceivable task. 