User-Friendly, OMRON’s New H5CC Digital Timer Offers Seamless Industrial Timing Control OMRON recently released its new H5CC digital timer. Combining features from five OMRON designs, the Industry 4.0-ready device offers an easily accessible programming interface and predictive maintenance functionality in a compact package. Timers are essential in industrial processes as they aid in coordinating sequences of tasks to provide a smooth operation. OMRON Automation, seeking to hone its reputation for providing effective industrial automation solutions even more sharply, recently announced its latest hit, the H5CC digital timer. Designed for performance and programming efficiency, the H5CC, as its name implies, combines the functionality of five different OMRON timers.  Because OMRON combined the technology it uses in five of its digital timers, the H5CC offers an efficient way to achieve seamless automation and control of industrial process timing. The new device for example is equipped with a super-bright LCD display for better visibility. Improved status indicator LEDs are also fitted to the timer to highlight critical operational information. Because programming is accomplished with half the inputs, setup is more user-friendly and faster. OMRON’s H5CC is compact and offers an IP66 rating to protect it from harsh environments, and the operating conditions found in most industrial environments.    If only all industrial automation and control technologies could tell you they were on their last legs. It would save us all a lot of trouble – and downtime. Scheduled maintenance is essential to ensure industrial systems and components function reliably over time. The more information a device can share with operators and maintenance technicians the better. In order to reduce risk and potential downtime, the H5CC digital timer integrates predictive maintenance functionality that flags impending failure and then automatically schedules maintenance.   Versatile and compact the H5CC digital timer combines the functionalities of five different OMRON timers. Image used courtesy of OMRON Automation  The H5CC timer is suitable for a wide, and diverse range of industrial applications. Top of the list includes food and beverage, solder cooling stations, food production equipment, conveyor systems, packaging machinery, injection molding machines, and more. However, according to OMRON, there are few, if any limits to where the timer can be used, and depends solely on the industrial sequential control you intend to manipulate.  Digital timers remain an essential tool and a key enabling technology for sequential control, especially for those looking to compete in the Industry 4.0 race. This is prompting manufacturers to seek advanced solutions to accelerate innovation and optimize production. Capable of solving myriad industrial challenges, the H5CC’s advanced features and capabilities just might help industrial systems engineers get operations to the 4.0 finish line faster than its peers. 