Schneider Electric Launches Managed Security Services Schneider Electric offers its Managed Security Services (MSS) geared towards shoring up industrial data security and readiness. Schneider Electric recently announced a new service for enhancing industrial cybersecurity. According to Jay Abdallah, Vice President of Cybersecurity Solutions and Services, “Managed Security Services (MSS) will help our customers implement cybersecurity industry-leading practices, proactively manage risks, and align to regulatory requirements, giving them the ability to focus on their core operations.”  Cyber security goes beyond password management and training staff to refrain from responding to suspicious emails. From “skimmers” that pull credit card numbers and badge information to unsecured WiFi or Bluetooth connections, there is plenty of opportunity for a bad actor to gain access to manufacturing system data and controls. The question is not “Will it happen?” but rather, “When it happens?” followed by “How can I minimize the impact?” In industrial/manufacturing settings, data collection and management offer a tempting target for bad actors. Data and trade secrets are valuable, especially to unscrupulous competitors. Stolen data can also be used to manipulate control algorithms and generate bad control outcomes. Ransomware is another common threat. Here data is locked out, then only released after a ransom is paid.   When looking for vulnerabilities, it is easy to think “Why would anybody care about this valve position?” and overlook the threat. Instead, ask “What if control of this valve is lost?” Perhaps a valve running cooling water to a reactor is not very interesting, but if a ransomware attack locked operators out of this valve, a catastrophe might follow if control is not re-acquired in a timely fashion.  Schneider Electric's MSS eliminates the need to hire an expert team of cybersecurity specialists. Its MSS offering delivers to industrial users a comprehensive cybersecurity package that handles all aspects of cybersecurity. According to Scheider Electric, its service offers risk management, vulnerability assessments, incident management, control monitoring, and more. One advantage of the service is that it is expressly designed to manage Operational Technology (OT) security. To help keep things secure, the MSS also includes 24/7 monitoring and notification. Schneider’s MSS looks for potential weak spots and other vulnerabilities. This is particularly important with the rise in remote and mobile access to equipment and databases.  With the industrial rebound post-pandemic, there has been a rise in cyberattacks. The manufacturing sector saw more cyberattacks in the past year (2022) than ever before. Schneider Electric has been keeping abreast of these trends and developed the service to prevent these attacks. Ultimately, notes Scheineder Electric, with MSS, cyberattacks are actively managed to avoid potential disaster. 