WAGO Debuts New Protocols for Its CC-100 PLC WAGO recently added new features to its compact CC-100, offering users a versatile PLC with a wider range of protocols. WAGO, well-known for its portfolio of control technologies, recently introduced new features to its Compact Controller-100 (CC-100) PLC. Offering new protocols ideal for the utility sector, the CC-100 has worked to provide industry with a more versatile controller designed to help solve space and mounting issues in demanding applications.   The CC-100 comes with two ethernet ports to communicate using any of the original protocols including: Additionally, WAGO has integrated BACnet, OPC/UA, and DNP3 to support utility sector applications. According to WAGO, the CC-100 is engineered to be a versatile, compact PLC that offers built-in I/O features and a footprint perfect for tight spaces.  WAGO created the CC-100 by taking a set of 750 Series I/O couplers and adding a PLC. This ensures that the PLC has the performance to handle many different tasks with the enhanced connectivity needed to support machine design, control network retrofits and upgrades, as well as other critical industrial control projects. Engineered to use digital and analog inputs and outputs, its inherent flexibility means it can be configured to meet end-users specific needs. Available with eight digital, two analog, and two RTD inputs, as well as four digital and two analog outputs, the CC-100 can be used to control a long list of devices. Going all the way, the CC-100 accepts WAGO’s 750-362 MODBUS Coupler which expands the amount of I/O capabilities available for applications requiring a larger number of I/O ports. Users can connect to the PLC using WAGO’s PicoMAX connectors. Delivered with CODESYS V3 software, the CC-100 offers users the industry-leading platform that provides advanced programming capabilities and software development. CODESYS V3 allows users to code in any one of IEC 61131-3 compatible languages. In addition, users can work with the CC-100’s built-in web servers to allow for HTML 5 visualizations on demand.  Equipped with two ethernet ports, a switch allows two different IP addresses. Two separate IP addresses mean customers can use one ethernet port for field devices and the other for cloud-based or IIOT services. The WAGO CC-100 was specifically engineered for OEMs, IIOT digitization, and building automation applications. Ready for applications around the world, WAGO's CC-100 also includes two configurable RJ45 ports with MicroSD card slots. 